BOSTON (MarketWatch) ¡ª The U.S. economy¡¯s recovery and subsequent expansion since 2008 has been painfully slow, but appears to be gaining traction. The Federal Reserve¡¯s monetary policy should reflect this reality. Interest rates cannot stay low forever, and central bank balance sheets should not grow to the sky.

According to the most recent data available, economic activity remains subpar, but 2.5% real GDP and 6.7% unemployment with 1.6% core inflation is hardly a crisis state. At some point, continuing the Fed¡¯s extraordinary quantitative easing measures indicate that the underlying economy is not healthy, creating more uncertainty for investors, businesses and consumers.

To counter this, the Fed should spell out what a more normalized monetary policy would look like, starting with its policy meeting this week. Here are five actions the Fed should take:

1. Continue to unhinge forward guidance from the current unemployment target

In spite of the recent blip-up in unemployment to 6.7%, this rate is dangerously close to the 6.5% mark the Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) has pegged as possibly warranting a move from its current level. The Fed knows that the reduction in unemployment from 10% to 6.7% is likely due in large part to changing labor force dynamics ¡ª a generational drop in the participation rate to 63%, not resurgence in true job creation. So, if 6.5% is no longer relevant, what is the new standard?

2. Be more explicit about tapering guidance

The Fed has maintained that tapering is ¡°data dependent¡± and not on a set path. However, this has been largely contradicted by FOMC members who believe the monthly reduction of $10 billion is a relatively set course. Further clarification will help market participants better gauge how long the Fed¡¯s support of Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities will last.

This experimental program allows the Fed to lend securities, effectively draining liquidity from the system. This program may be well-suited for managing rates higher when the time comes, as it can more directly control short-term interest rates and is open to large non-bank financial institutions in addition to banks.

4. Consider a transition from a zero interest rate policy (ZIRP) to merely a low interest rate policy

Since January 2009, the effective fed funds rate has averaged just 0.14%. Market rates have already moved up from their 2012¨C13 lows, so many of the positive effects from refinancing and balance sheet repair have already occurred. With the baby boomers growing as a percent of total consumption every day, it¡¯s time for the Fed to ask if near-zero short-term yields aren¡¯t punishing savers more than they¡¯re helping borrowers.

Surely by late 2014 or early 2015 (post-QE), an economy growing near 3% should be able to handle an overnight rate of 0.50% to 0.75%. A modest increase in short-term rates could send a positive economic message (while helping to remove some speculative excess from the credit markets).

5. Janet Yellen should put her own stamp on monetary policy

In many ways, the Fed chairwoman¡¯s continuation of Ben Bernanke¡¯s policies was an important driver in her selection, but at some point Yellen must help guide the Fed away from her predecessor¡¯s war footing.

Which policy tools does Yellen prefer? How does she balance the Fed¡¯s dual mandate? What is her regulatory agenda? With falling unemployment, moderate inflation and improving growth, market interest rates should move gradually higher. While investors have been planning their rising rate strategy for several years, it¡¯s time the Fed presented its plan for a post-ZIRP world.

David F. Lafferty is chief market strategist for Natixis Global Asset Management in Boston. Follow his blog here.

What tapering means for you

Yellen needs to make a margin call on Wall Street

Are you ready for deflation?