King Entertainment's Candy Crush Saga app is aiming to fund $530 million for a $7.6 billion value on its Initial Public Offering submitted last month The Telegraph reported Wednesday.

"'Candy Crush' is in slight decline and I think that's what investors will focus on," Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agree and Leach told Bloomberg.."They are trying to be cognizant of what happened to Zynga."

According to The Telegraph, plans to have shares from $21 and $24 each upon its arrival on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Shareholders Ventures and Apax are expected to market 6.7 million in shares.

"King simply must create multi-decade franchises around characters that last for generations - not for fortnights - before they can have a successful IPO at the valuation they want," Sam Hamadeh, founder of PrivCo, said in a statement prior to KING submitting necessary materials for the Initial Public Offering Feb. 18 Bloomberg reported.

Candy Crush Saga was first introduced on King's website before coming to Facebook last April Technology Tell reported. It then became available on Mobile Apps a year ago this month.

The game has since set records in Apple's iOS app store, and Google Play Store.

The app is bringing in the most money in the US App store, and many parts of the world Technology Tell reported.

More than 61 percent of players who have the game in the United Kingdom, compete while they are on their way to work in the morning Tech Crunch reported.

Seventy-eight percent of players in the United States use the game as they view television shows since data found prime time was from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., along with Sundays.

According to Tech Crunch, one in every 23 people on Facebook play the game.

King brought in $1.9 billion in income in 2013 according to information from CNET. This is an increase from $164 million in 2012, and $63,9 million in 2011 CNET reported.

King owns 180 additional other games, which are played by ninety-three million people regularly.