10 Things to Know for Thursday

Marwan Shtewi, 32, lies on the bed at the surgery's ward of Shifa hospital in Gaza City, Wednesday, May 16, 2018. Shtewi was shot in his hand and abdomen by Israeli troops during a protest east of Gaza City on Monday. With few prospects and little to fear, Shtewi is among the crowds of young men who put themselves on the front lines of violent protests along the border with Israel, risking their lives in a weekly showdown meant to draw attention to the dire conditions of Gaza. (AP Photo/Adel Hana)

Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Thursday:

The documents show the president reimbursed attorney Michal Cohen as much as $250,000 ¡ª with no mention of a $130,000 hush-money payment to porn star Stormy Daniels.

2. WHY NKOREA THREATENS TO SCRAP US SUMMIT

Pyongyang says it has no interest in a ¡°one-sided¡± affair meant to pressure the North to abandon its nuclear weapons.

The university will pay $500 million to settle claims from over 300 women and girls who said they were assaulted by sports doctor Larry Nassar.

The vote is intended to revive Obama-era internet rules that ensured equal treatment for all web traffic.

5. WHO SAYS MOST OF THOSE SLAIN ON GAZA BORDER WERE MEMBERS

Some 50 out of 60 protesters shot to death by Israeli forces belonged to Hamas, a senior official with the militant group says.

Mark Zuckerberg is expected to speak with leaders of the European parliament about his company¡¯s data protection scandal.

7. ¡®WE ARE SEEING CUTBACK, AFTER CUTBACK¡¯

Thousands of teachers fill the main street of North Carolina¡¯s capital demanding better pay and more public schools funding.

¡°People are not aware that this is a test that can actually save lives,¡± says Dr. Richard Schilsky of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

The film ¡ª now in competition for Cannes¡¯ Palme d¡¯Or ¡ª is the true-life tale of an African-American detective who infiltrated a Ku Klux Klan cell.

With sports betting on the verge of expanding nationwide, those eyeing a huge payoff should understand that opening a sports book means high risks, uncertain rewards.