Stock futures are veering south after sharp losses out of Hong Kong and Tokyo started to repeat in Europe. Futures for the S&P 500 index fell 3.7 points to 1,861.50, while those for the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 27 points to 16,309 and Nasdaq 100 futures shed about 10 points to 3,678.75. (MarketWatch)

European stocks dropped to their lowest level in a month as investors sold shares in companies from AP Moeller-Maersk to Valeo SA, while Russia and Ukraine continued their standoff over the region of Crimea. (Bloomberg News)

Brent futures fell towards $108 a barrel today as concerns about weak demand growth in the world's two biggest oil consumers overshadowed fears of supply disruption amid worsening geopolitical tensions over Ukraine. (Reuters)

The agency that oversees public transportation in Chicago has filed a lawsuit claiming American Airlines is running a "sham" office in a small town to avoid paying taxes in the nation's third-largest city. ( Associated Press

General Motors could face criminal charges connected to the recall of 1.6 million vehicles. (MarketWatch)

Mortgage applications fell last week as fewer consumers purchased properties and refinanced their homes. (Bloomberg Businessweek)

As part of trade talks, the European Union wants to ban the use of European names like Parmesan, feta and Gorgonzola on cheese made in the United States. (Associated Press

Hedge fund manager William Ackman renewed his attack on Herbalife Tuesday and said he has evidence the nutrition and weight loss company is breaking direct-selling laws in China, its fastest growing market. (Reuters)

Starbucks said today it will revamp its mobile payment app on the iPhone to add digital tipping, a new interface and a shake-to-pay feature. (ZDNet)

King, the London-based games developer behind the addictive app Candy Crush Saga, said it plans to raise as much as $530 million in an initial public offering that would value the company at almost $7.6 billion. (Financial Times)

Flappy Bird creator Dong Nguyen has said he is considering bringing Flappy Bird back to mobile platforms. (GameSpot)

On March 31 yet another court case is set to get underway between Apple and Samsung, regarding five patents Apple claims Samsung is infringing. (Geek.com)

Former Libyan prime minister Ali Zeidan has fled to Europe after parliament voted him out of office Tuesday over his failure to stop rebels exporting oil independently in a brazen challenge to the nation's fragile unity. ( Reuters

Without Crimea, Ukraine looks set to lose an important piece of its economic and energy future: valuable undersea oil and gas fields that lie just offshore the Crimean peninsula. (Bloomberg Businessweek)

Airline earnings for 2014 will be $1 billion or 5 percent lower than previously predicted as political tensions drive up oil prices and growth in emerging markets slows, the International Air Transport Association said. (Bloomberg News)

Eurozone industrial output continued weaker in January, but the underlying trend appears consistent with a very modest economic recovery in the single-currency bloc. (Economic Times)

British insurer Prudential today reported a sharp fall in full-year 2013 profit, as total revenues declined with a drop in investment return. (RTT News)