¡°Candy Crush Saga¡± maker, King Digital Entertainment Plc, hopes investors will have a sweet tooth as it prepares for an IPO. King plans to offer 22.2 million shares of stock between $21 to $24 per share, valuing the company at up to $7.6 billion. The weight of the company¡¯s enormous valuation has crushed some expectations, as long-term potential for the game maker remains to be proven.

King has a portfolio of 180 games available for download through mobile devices, Facebook and the company¡¯s own websites. Mobile gaming has become the company¡¯s primary focus, which analysts estimate is a $17 billion market, as mobile devices become an increasingly more important aspect of consumer¡¯s lives.

Peter Garnry, Saxo Bank¡¯s Head of Equity Strategy, states that a $7.6 billion valuation is ¡°not unreasonably high given the growth rate.¡± Everyday more than 1.085 billion games are played by the company¡¯s 144 million daily active users; ¡°Candy Crush Saga¡± is responsible for attracting 93 million of those daily active users. ¡°Pet Rescue Saga,¡± the company¡¯s second most popular game, draws 15 million daily active users. Even though one individual game is responsible for the success of this company, Peter believes the company¡¯s valuation is not outlandish.

With no debt on the books, Garnry believes King might be priced ¡°a little bit too low.¡± The company demonstrated its potential profitability when it posted $714.3 million in profit last year. The company generates revenue through the sale of virtual items which enhance the gaming experience or enable players to advance to new levels. The company recently replaced all external advertisements with its own display advertisements, promoting the sale of upgrades and virtual items.

The popularity of the company¡¯s lesser known games has increased in the last quarter. However, revenue in the same quarter dropped 3 percent, which coincided with a dip in ¡°Candy Crush Saga¡¯s¡± popularity. This decline has worried investors who believe the company may have reached a tipping point.



Zynga, another social gaming company, exhibited a similar rise with the success of the company's popular ¡°Farmville¡± game. Capitalizing on the popularity of the game, Zynga held an IPO in 2011 and has subsequently seen a more than 40 percent decline in its share price over the past three years as the popularity of "Farmville" dwindled. 



The IPO date is scheduled for March 25th, and the company will begin trading under the ticker symbol ¡°KING¡± on the following day.