_iNVEZZ.com: Tuesday, March 11th:_ Bank of England governor Mark Carney said today in the Inflation Report Hearings before Parliament¡¯s Treasury Committee that the UK¡¯s economy was not close to overheating, despite the strong rebound since last year.

Carney noted that spare capacity in the economy was in all likelihood more than 1.5 percent of GDP, with the implication that the central bank could keep interest rates unchanged for a longer time.

He surmised that when a hike in interest rates happens it will be gradual, and he agreed with Deputy Governor Charlie Bean¡¯s comment yesterday that rates were unlikely to exceed 2.5 percent over the next three years.

Carney observed that ¡°the most recent figures on productivity suggest around a two percent annualised growth rate, which is coming for the first time in a very long time towards trend¡±.

The British Retail Consortium (BRC) and KPMG have today released their UK Retail Sales Monitor, showing a one percent fall year-on-year last month on a like-on-like basis.

Total retail sales were up 0.7 percent y/y and the three-month rolling average total growth was 2.8 percent, in line with a 12-month trend now at 2.7 percent.

KPMG head of retail David McCorquodale writes in the accompanying report that ¡°February saw a hiatus on the High Street, with online sales soaring while in store sales stalled¡±.

¡°There¡¯s no doubt¡±, McCorquodale says, that ¡°inclement weather exacerbated this trend, but it certainly underscores the importance of having a sophisticated online operation¡±.

He notes that ¡°overall sales were pretty flat, which serves as a reminder that recovery is far from certain¡±.

The UK¡¯s Office for National Statistics (ONS) today released its Manufacturing Production survey for January m/m, logging a 0.4 percent increase and beating expectations for a 0.3 percent rise.

The ONS also reported that Industrial Production, which includes mines and utilities, grew 0.1 percent in January, versus forecasts for a 0.2 percent gain.

The GBP/USD has so far today been expanding yesterday¡¯s 0.88 percent loss and is currently trading at 1.6610, down 0.26 percent intraday. Over the past few hours the pair has hit its lowest level since 24 February, at 0.6595.