The Bank of England¡¯s Governor has warned an independent Scotland would be forced to promise to replace the pound with the euro if it wanted European Union membership.

In a major blow to Alex Salmond¡¯s economic case for separation, Mark Carney told a Westminster inquiry that all new applicants to the EU have to join the single currency in the ¡°fullness of time¡±.

He also told MPs it is a ¡°distinct possibility¡± the Royal Bank of Scotland would have to move its headquarters south of the Border if there is a ¡®yes¡¯ vote in September¡¯s independence referendum.

In triple blow to Alex Salmond¡¯s economic case for independence, the Governor said a separate Scotland¡¯s taxpayers would have to guarantee billions of pounds of deposits held by Scottish banks in England.

Although Mr Carney insisted he was staying neutral in the independence debate, including Mr Salmond¡¯s plan to share the pound, he told MPs he wanted to draw attention to the underlying economic issues.

Opposition politicians praised the Governor¡¯s ¡°reasoned, technical and sobering analysis¡± and urged the First Minister to ¡°come clean¡± about a separate Scotland¡¯s currency.

Mr Salmond has insisted a separate Scotland would enter a currency union to share the pound with the remainder of the UK despite the Chancellor ruling out any such arrangement.

His White Paper also claims an independent Scotland would start life in the EU and inherit the UK¡¯s opt-out from the euro.

But Mr Carney highlighted to the Commons Treasury select committee a statement by Jos¨¦ Manuel Barroso, the European Commission President, that Scotland would have to apply from scratch.

¡°That application, as for any new application to join the European Union, would include a commitment to join the euro in the fullness of time,¡± the Governor said.

Although new EU entrants do not have to join the single currency from day one, they have to sign up to the euro in principle with a promise to adopt it when they meet the economic conditions.

The select committee also heard how European laws that require banks to have their head offices in the same member state as their registered offices would be likely to hit Scotland.

Asked if RBS would have to move south of the Border if an independent Scotland joined the EU, Mr Carney said: "It's a distinct possibility but I shouldn't prejudge it.¡±

Standard Life and the Alliance Trust, the historic Dundee investment firm, have already started planning to move operations to England if there is a ¡®yes¡¯ vote in September.

Questioned whether the Bank of England would help bail out a separate Scotland¡¯s financial institutions, Mr Carney told the committee it can act as lender of last resort to ¡°branches and subsidiaries of foreign banks ¡­ but we don¡¯t have to.¡±

He added the Bank would make a decision after a ¡®yes¡¯ vote but warned it was ¡°very cautious¡± about the ¡°exposure to the public balance sheet.¡±

John Thurso MP, a Scottish Liberal Democrat member of the committee, said: ¡°When a sensible person says sensible things, SNP ministers would be wise to listen.

¡°What we heard today was a reasoned, technical and sobering analysis from Mark Carney on the many questions around the SNP¡¯s for currency, EU entry and our financial services.¡±

Cathy Jamieson MP, Labour¡¯s Shadow Economic Secretary to the Treasury, said: "It¡¯s time for the SNP to come clean and tell us what their Plan B is on currency and just how many jobs they will sacrifice on the altar of Alex Salmond¡¯s constitutional obsession.¡±

A Scottish Government spokesman said: ¡°In terms of the euro, Scotland will not be an accession state to the EU but will negotiate the specific terms of our continued membership from within ¨C and in any case, there is no provision to compel any member state to adopt the euro, as the case of Sweden proves.¡±