The virtual currency known as Bitcoin is likely here to stay. Not in its current form, not after its many problems were cast in stark relief by the collapse of Mt. Gox, formerly the world¡¯s largest bitcoin bank. It famously lost all $500 million-plus worth of the Bitcoins its clients had on deposit when hackers attacked its website. The spectacular blowout at the Tokyo-based Mt. Gox on Feb. 28, the site had been plagued for months by abrupt shutdowns and other technical woes, was preceded weeks earlier by the arrest of BitInstant founder Charles Shrem, whose Bitcoin bank is accused of facilitating drug transactions on Silk Road, a notorious and now-defunct Internet black market for illicit drug sales.

And the demise of Mt. Gox has been followed by a robbery, by hackers, of an estimated $600,000 (U.S.) worth of Bitcoins from the Alberta Bitcoin bank Flexcoin. It also came to light this week that Autumn Radtke, 28-year-old CEO of Singapore-based Bitcoin exchange First Meta, had died of ¡°unnatural¡± causes on the day Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy. Bitcoin, which holds the promise of becoming the world¡¯s first global currency, is for now easily mocked. It is just four years old. It is almost wholly unregulated. It is backed neither by central banks nor national treasuries. And there is no Canada Deposit Insurance Corp. or its equivalent elsewhere to make good on, for instance, the half-billion-dollars worth of Bitcoins stolen from Mt. Gox. By April of last year, the number of daily Bitcoin transactions had reached 70,000, remarkable for a currency that debuted in 2009. But the estimated total value of Bitcoin transactions was a mere $2 billion ¡ª not even a rounding error in a global economy of $72 trillion. The value of Bitcoins has been hugely volatile, even by the standards of the most volatile commodities. In the first four months of last year, the value of a Bitcoin gyrated wildly, from $13 to $266, before suddenly plunging more than 60 per cent. Yet by November of last year, the Bitcoin¡¯s value had recovered to set a record high of more than $1,200, before stumbling to its current value of $525 or so in the aftermath of the Mt. Gox debacle. Rank speculation is behind that volatility, giving the not-ready-for-prime-time currency a reputation in ¡°proper¡± circles of ¡°Trading tulips in real time,¡± the comparison with 18th-century Tulipmania to the Bitcoin phenomenon used by Art Cashin, a veteran broker at the giant Swiss-based traditional bank UBS AG.

And yet, and yet. Few merchants price their goods in Bitcoins ¡ª how could they, given their volatility? ¡ª but a surprisingly large number of online merchants now accept Bitcoins as payment. Such merchants are protected by firms like Utah¡¯s BitPay, which collects the Bitcoins owed to its 4,500 merchants and other clients, and forwards to them conventional cash, taking on itself the risk of Bitcoin value volatility. To be sure, the Bitcoin exists in the same cultish ethos as gold, whose most zealous adulators believe today¡¯s ¡°fiat¡± money, as they deride the stuff printed and backed by governments, could become worthless by government whim. Mind you, it¡¯s the same rapture felt by the early evangelists of the PC and later the Internet, who turned out to be so close to the mark in their forecasts that this new century is defined as the Information Age.

Bitcoins have so far existed at the margins of mainstream economics. And so it hasn¡¯t been readily apparent, as perhaps it should be, that some form of global economic currency is the inevitable next step in a globally interconnected financial system in which millions of transactions and trillions of dollars each day have long taken place in pixels, not cash. Electronic banking as a Main Street reality made its advent about a decade ago and e-commerce has followed, adopted by an increasing number of vendors as varied as florists, apparel merchants and car dealerships. Why not an electronic currency, recognized worldwide, to fill out what¡¯s already an overwhelmingly electronic financial world? The early champions of Bitcoin are a diverse group. They include the major institutional investor Fortress Investment Group, which manages $62 billion in conventional investments; venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, a heavy investor in Bitcoin-related startups who is still best-known for having helped pioneer Netscape, the first reliable Internet browser; and the Winklevoss twins, Tyler and Cameron, Bitcoin venture investors last seen being outfoxed by Mark Zuckerberg in the Facebook docudrama The Social Network. A motley crew, possibly. But also arguing in Bitcoin¡¯s defence is Robert Shiller. The Yale economist was among the few to predict the dot-com collapse in the late 1990s, and among the fewer still to warn of the unprecedented U.S. housing collapse that triggered the Great Recession. ¡°Something good can arise from [Bitcoin¡¯s] innovations ¡ª even if the results are very different from its current form,¡± Shiller wrote in a New York Times essay on the heels of the Mt. Gox implosion, when there were obvious doubts about the nascent currency¡¯s future. ¡°Electronic forms of money could give us better pricing, contracting and risk management.¡± To this point, the Bitcoin has had a Wild West feel to it. But regulators in Europe, Japan and the U.S. are moving quickly in the aftermath of the Mt. Gox collapse to rein in Bitcoin trading, requiring Bitcoin banks and trading houses to make detailed records of trades and report high-value transactions just as conventional financial institutions are required to do. The improvements in financial-transaction activity that Bitcoin has identified are undeniably attractive. You can access your Bitcoin account with your 12-character password using your smartphone or other computing device from anywhere on the planet at any time of day. And there are no transaction costs. Commercial banks make most of their profits from transaction fees ¡ª you¡¯ve likely noticed it can cost you $21.50 to withdraw $20 from an ATM. It¡¯s estimated that payments and other banking transactions will generate $1.1 trillion a year in a decade¡¯s time, about double the current amount. That¡¯s a lot of honey to attract techies who can design a new payments system that strips out the speculators and standardizes payments across today¡¯s multitude of national currencies. Indeed, the durability of peer-to-peer Internet sharing of music and movies is a comparison often made to the inevitability of electronic currency that removes the middleman and his cut. Cameron Winklevoss claims that ¡°To shut down Bitcoin, you¡¯d have to shut down the Internet.¡± Well, no. But if a means can be perfected of curbing the proliferation of banking fees, one would have some difficulty silencing the clamour for that kind of progress.