Chrysler is conducting two voluntary recalls. The first covers 2014 Fiat 500L and the second affects 2012-2013 Jeep Grand Cherokee and Dodge Durango for two unrelated problems. The automaker reports no injury associated with them.

19,500 2014 Fiat 500L vehicles are being recalled over automatic transmission problems. Chrysler will upgrade the transmission, which was reported not to shift readily out of park. In addition the automaker also reports that the transmission is slow to receive, or doesn`t receive intended gear selection inputs.

¡°Chrysler Group engineers launched an investigation after reviewing reports that some vehicles equipped with dual dry clutch automatic transmissions would not shift readily out of park and/or their transmissions did not receive, or were slow to receive, an intended gear selection,¡± the automaker said in a statement on its website. ¡°The investigation discovered the function of one microcontroller component may be compromised by certain temperature extremes. A software update resolves the issue.¡±

The automaker announced approximately 200 Fiat 500Ls may require a replacement of shift module to ensure compatibility of hardware-software. The owners of the affected vehicles posted complaints about the car defect with NHTSA. In particular they informed that the transmission doesn`t shift to gear, or car stopped while driving and began to shift again only after several attempts.

Authorized dealerships are instructed to upgrade a software to correct the performance of a microcontroller component that can fail or malfunction in utmost temperatures. All the works will be performed free of charge.

Another Chrysler recall affects 2012-2013 Jeep Grand Cherokee and Dodge Durango. The recall affects 25,250 vehicles ¨C 18,700 in the U.S, 825 in Canada, 530 in Mexico and 5,200 in other countries.

The automaker recalls them to address ¡°pedal feel¡± on the car`s brakes. Vehicles equipped with Ready Alert Braking system (it`s designed for priming brakes for emergency or immediate braking situations) are not adjusted to driver anticipation for brake feel. The investigation conducted by the automaker revealed that brake fluid in the affected vehicles was actually being restricted which induced decreased brake pedal feel. However, Chrysler reports that the brakes are functioning correctly.

According to the automaker, a software update will fix the problem. Vehicle owners can take their cars to the dealership for free repairs.

Chrysler hasn`t issued a timeline for both recalls. Consumers will be contacted soon and reported when to schedule repairs. Owners are encouraged to contact the automaker directly at 1-800-853-1403.