The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 Index provisionally closed lower by 1 percent as the referendum in Crimea on whether it should join Russia - a vote seen as illegal by Western powers - draws ever nearer with diplomatic efforts failing and economic sanctions becoming more likely.

European shares extended a two-week slide that began following the occupation of Crimea by Russian troops.

The U.K.'s FTSE 100 also closed down 1 percent -- lower for a fifth straight session -- following a slump in the supermarket sector. Britain's fourth-biggest grocer Wm Morrison posted its lowest profit in five years and slashed its expectations going forward. Morrison shares closed down around 12 percent, dragging other retailers with it, with J. Sainsbury trading lower by 8.4 percent and Tesco sinking 5 percent.

U.S. stocks also turned lower on Thursday, after the S&P 500 came less than four points from its record close, as Wall Street considered data that had retail sales rising last month and weekly jobless claims unexpectedly.

The Commerce Department reported retail sales gained 0.3 percent in February after a 0.6 percent decline the prior month, with the latter figure bigger than initially estimated.

Meanwhile, tensions in Ukraine continued on Thursday with a referendum for the region of Crimea still due to go ahead over the weekend. Leaders from Germany and Poland have said that the EU would go ahead with economic sanctions for Russia if the country decided to miss an arranged meeting which aims to de-escalate the situation.



Russia launched new military exercises near its border with Ukraine on Thursday, showing no sign of backing down in its plans to annex Crimea.

Ukraine's acting president Oleksander Turchinov said on Thursday that Russian forces were "ready to invade" but he believed international efforts could still end Moscow's "aggression."

German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- a leader closer to Valdimir Putin than most of her European counterparts -- warned of "catastrophe" unless Russia changes course.

"We would not only see it, also as neighbors of Russia, as a threat. And it would not only change the European Union's relationship with Russia," she said in a speech in parliament. "No, this would also cause massive damage to Russia, economically and politically."

Russia's MICEX index closed down by 2 percent on Thursday, continuing its slide south this week, having closed lower by 2.6 percent in the previous session.