The leaders of the Senate Banking Committee have reached a bipartisan agreement on how to overhaul the housing finance market ¡ª now they face the challenge of building a broad base of support to establish their legislation as the leading proposal for getting rid of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

What to do with the two mortgage finance giants has bedeviled policymakers since the government took over the companies in September 2008 as the housing market cratered and the financial crisis neared its zenith.

The plan announced on Tuesday by Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) and the panel¡¯s top Republican, Mike Crapo of Idaho, represents a centrist approach in which the government will still play a role in supporting the mortgage market but less of one than it does today.

¡°There is near unanimous agreement that our current housing finance system is not sustainable in the long term, and reform is necessary to help strengthen and stabilize the economy,¡± Johnson said in a joint statement with Crapo. ¡°This bipartisan effort will provide the market the certainty it needs.¡±

The bill is unlikely to receive a floor vote this year. But if the Banking Committee approves a plan, it could set the stage in the next Congress for the first serious negotiations since taxpayers rescued Fannie and Freddie.

The White House has hitched itself to the committee¡¯s plan with administration officials working with Johnson and Crapo throughout their negotiations.

¡°While maintaining their principles, both sides made difficult concessions in order to move this debate forward,¡± White House spokesman Bobby Whithorne said in a statement. ¡°We support this effort and believe it is a workable bipartisan approach to complete the biggest remaining piece of post-recession financial reform.¡±

The Johnson-Crapo proposal expands on a plan introduced last year by Sens. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.) that would wind down Fannie and Freddie and replace them with a new agency, known as the Federal Mortgage Insurance Corp., that is modeled after the the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Like the Corker-Warner plan, the new agency would guarantee certain mortgages after the first 10 percent of losses on new loans are covered by private capital, according to an outline of the bill.

Johnson and Crapo plan to introduce legislative text in the coming days and have the committee vote on the proposal in a few weeks.

The immediate challenge facing the two senators is to build support beyond the 10 committee members who endorsed the Corker-Warner bill ¡ª five Democrats and five Republicans. To attract liberal Democrats, the affordable housing aspects of the proposal have to be robust, while many Republicans are wary of keeping a large role for the government in the housing market.

On Tuesday, several panel members said they wanted to review specifics of the proposal before giving it a thumbs up or thumbs down.

¡°I don¡¯t have a reaction yet,¡± Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) said in an interview. ¡°I will always have concerns about affordable housing.¡±

Corker commended Johnson and Crapo for putting together a plan but held back on endorsing their proposal.

¡°Amen, brother,¡± Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) said in an interview. ¡°Let¡¯s get it done ¡ª have a markup and kick it out of committee before Easter.¡±

Johnson will retire at the end of this Congress, making the level of support he and Crapo can build this year all the more important to their proposal¡¯s eventual success. Brown¡¯s support is likely key because he could be the committee¡¯s next chairman.

House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) has introduced a competing approach that would greatly reduce the government¡¯s support of the mortgage market, essentially leaving only a scaled-down Federal Housing Administration as a backstop for home loans.