Hong Kong: China will widen the limit for the yuan¡¯s daily moves against the US dollar, easing exchange-rate controls as policy makers encourage greater use of the currency in global trade and finance.

The yuan will be able to trade as much as 2% on either side of a daily central bank reference rate, compared with the current 1%, the People¡¯s Bank of China said in a statement published on its website on Saturday. The change will take effect on 17 March. The band was last widened in April 2012 from 0.5%, and before that from 0.3% in May 2007.

The move underscores pledges from the government to make the exchange rate more market based and promote freer movement of capital in and out of the country for investment. The People¡¯s Bank of China in February included an orderly broadening of the yuan¡¯s band among its 2014 policy goals, and it said in November that it plans to end basic intervention in the currency market.

Introducing more flexibility in the exchange rate is an essential step to globalizing the yuan, Nathan Chow, a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said before the announcement. A third of China¡¯s trade will be settled in yuan by 2015 and the currency will be fully convertible within five years, HSBC Holdings Plc forecast in a report last year.

The yuan depreciated as much as 0.86% on 28 February, the biggest intraday loss in China Foreign Exchange System prices going back to 2007. The drop was also the largest since China unified official and market exchange rates at the start of 1994. The majority of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News in February had said they expect the PBOC to double the yuan¡¯s daily limit by the end of June.

The currency has dropped 1.8% from a 20-year high of 6.0406 per dollar reached on 14 January, after strengthening 2.9% in 2013. It closed at 6.1502 on 14 March.

The yuan¡¯s drop was largely guided by the government to tame expectations of appreciation and counter hot money inflows as it prepared for the band widening, DBS¡¯ Chow said. China¡¯s foreign-exchange reserves climbed to a world record $3.82 trillion at the end of December.

The latest band widening also comes as China trials convertibility of the yuan under the capital account in a free- trade zone in Shanghai. Premier Li Keqiang has set a flexible economic growth target of 7.5 % this year for the nation. BLOOMBERG