Over 4.2 million people via Obamacare's HIE marketplaces through March 1

Nearly 950,000 Americans selected a health insurance plan through the state and federal exchanges in February, bringing the total to over 4.2 million people who had enrolled into private plans via Obamacare's health insurance exchange marketplaces through March 1, the Department of Health and Human Services announced.

Modern Healthcare reports enrollments decreased by just over 200,000¡ªor 18 percent¡ªfrom January, when more than 1.1 million individuals enrolled in commercial plans. Yet, despite the drop, federal officials anticipate another surge as the March 31 deadline for enrollment approaches. Those who are not covered by the deadline may face a fine of $95 or 1 percent of their income, whichever is greater.

According to The Huffington Post, at the current pace, sign-ups are below the original target of 5.6 million by the end of February, based on the Congressional Budget Office projection of seven million by the end of March. Last month, the budget office downgraded those projections to six million for the full six-month enrollment period, so a big surge would be needed in the final weeks to meet that benchmark.

Approximately 25 percent of enrollments up to March 1 were for individuals in the critical demographic age range of 18 to 34. They are presumed to be healthier and thus less likely to incur costly medical bills than the older people in the market. The White House originally aimed for about 40 percent of the enrollees to be younger than 35 years old.

Uncertainty also remains as to how many people have signed up for Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program since open enrollment commenced Oct. 1. According to Tuesday's HHS report, 4.4 million people have signed up for Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program since the beginning of the enrollment period. That number doesn't include anyone who enrolled in the programs directly with state agencies, however.

HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius pointed to a Gallup survey released Monday that showed the percentage of uninsured individuals decreased from 17.1 to 15.9 percent, the lowest level since 2008, as evidence that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is making a difference. ¡°This wasn't a coincidence or something that just happened on its own,¡± Sebelius said. ¡°Given what we know about past enrollment patterns for healthcare, we expect that even more will sign up as we approach the March 31 deadline.¡±

 

 Just over 60 percent of enrollments¡ªor 2.6 million¡ªwere processed through the federal exchange. The rest were through the marketplaces run by 14 states and the District of Columbia.