SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡ª Gold futures rallied on Wednesday to mark their highest settlement since September, buoyed by tensions in Ukraine and a pullback for the equities markets linked to concerns over a slowdown in China¡¯s economy.

Worries over China have also sent prices for copper sharply lower over the past three trading sessions, with prices holding below $3 a pound.

Several factors are driving demand for gold, said Jim Russell, senior equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. Those include military developments by Russia in Ukraine and Crimea¡¯s referendum vote Sunday, emerging-market currency weakness and a ¡°higher degree of ancillary geopolitical concerns stemming from uncertainty surrounding Syria and Iran.¡±

All of these issues, except for the Sunday referendum, are ¡°longer-term trends that are likely to keep a bid under gold for the foreseeable future,¡± said Russell.

Gold for April delivery US:GCJ4 rose another $23.80, or 1.8%, to settle at $1,370.50 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, its third-straight session climb. Prices for a most-active contract haven¡¯t closed at levels this high since Sept. 9, FactSet data show. May silver US:SIK4 also jumped 54 cents, or 2.6%, to $21.36 an ounce.

True safe-haven demand has taken root with ¡°no way out or to back down at the present time,¡± said Jeffrey Wright, managing director at H.C. Wainwright. ¡°The end result is higher gold. Gold while trending upward has set a new support level around $1,300.¡±

There is a clear ¡°standoff and no sign of an end game on either side with the Ukrainian crisis,¡± he said, adding that the Group of Seven leaders have sent a joint communiqu¨¦ to Russian President Vladimir Putin to not annex the Crimea region into Russia, regardless of the outcome of the planned referendum on Sunday.¡±

Data from China over the past weekend, meanwhile, showed a much weaker-than-expected monthly decline in Chinese exports, raising concerns over the nation¡¯s economy.

With all of that in the backdrop, global equities traded broadly lower on Wednesday, with U.S. stocks mostly lower Wednesday afternoon.

Metals-mining shares followed gold prices higher, with the Philadephia Gold and Silver Index XAU, +0.05% up 2.3%. The SPDR Gold Trust GLD, +0.08% rose 1.4%.

On Tuesday, gold scored its second-straight advance as worries over Russia¡¯s standoff in Ukraine and fears of a slowdown in China continued to draw buyers to the perceived safety of the precious metal.

¡°Open interest in gold futures and options has jumped, and price action says this new hot money is all bullish,¡± said Adrian Ash, head of research at BullionVault. ¡°But the market doesn¡¯t look over-stretched yet. The [speculative] net long position almost tripled between New Year¡¯s and last week.¡± A long position is essentially a bet that prices will go higher.

Copper has been in focus this week due to its abysmal performance of late.

The commodity is by far the worst performer among all precious and base metals, with a drop of roughly 13% this year. Copper¡¯s troubles have come amid fears of a slowing Chinese economy ¡ª and hence slowing demand for the commodity. There are also fears of credit risks in the country and that financing via warehouse-stored copper in China could collapse. Also see: Iron-ore price decline may slow as banks take control

Copper prices basically collapsed on Tuesday afternoon, closing down 2.6% to $2.95 a pound, the lowest level seen since July 2010. That level was been taken out early Wednesday on electronic trading, touching a low of $2.91.

High-grade copper for May delivery US:HGK4 US:HGK4 closed up a penny, or 0.3%, at $2.96 a pound Wednesday.

But on the Shanghai Futures Exchange overnight, the most-traded copper contract hit its lowest level in more than four years, and in London, the copper benchmark hit its lowest level in more than three years, according to media reports.

Analysts at Commerzbank explained that copper in London dipped below the $6,600 per ton threshold and below the $3 per pound market in New York simultaneously, with the two feeding off each other.

Barclays believes the worst is likely over, or at least close to it, while Commerzbank also says the slump is excessive. ¡°What is more, the price does not reflect the current supply-demand situation on the global copper market ¡ª it is very tight, as the International Copper Study Group will doubtless confirm in the next few weeks,¡± said Commerzbank in a note.

Elsewhere in metals trading, April platinum US:PLJ4 rose $11.70, or 0.8%, to $1,476.30 an ounce, while June palladium US:PAM4 tacked on $6.65, or 0.9%, to $777.15 an ounce.

China¡¯s role in copper¡¯s collapse: Why investors should care

Jeff Gundlach: China bears watching; the taper may get tapered (recap)

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.