Fishermen huddled in their huts on a frozen lake in Michigan as a small drone flew toward them.

The drone, lifted by six helicopter rotors that spun on spidery arms, landed on the ice and departed after unclamping its cargo, a case of Lakemaid Beer.

As the test flight shows, drones can be the friends of fishermen and hunters, even though a bill introduced in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives would outlaw their use if it annoys people enjoying the outdoors.

In addition to delivering supplies or medicine to remote areas, drones can help foresters, for example, by surveying hunting land for damage done by gypsy moths.

Drones might cost less than the manned aircraft that state agencies now hire for aerial surveys.

Live video of wildfires from drones could help ground crews plan attacks and protect themselves.

The Federal Aviation Administration seeks to integrate drones into the nation's airspace without interfering with current users or decreasing safety in the air or on the ground.

So far, the FAA reacted faster to the needs of public agencies, such as foresters, than of businesses like Lakemaid Beer.

As the year began, 545 public agencies received waivers from the FAA to fly drones for purposes such as border and port monitoring, firefighting, search and rescues and military training.

Last year, the agency also let public safety agencies fly drones weighing less than 4.4 pounds during daylight if the drones fly below 400 feet and stay within sight of the operator.

Businesses still have to wait.

The FAA grounded Lakemaid Beer deliveries after seeing a video of a flight on YouTube.

Currently, the FAA only certifies two models of drones as airworthy for commercial use, and they only are approved for flights in the Arctic.

Helicopter drones as heavy as 140 pounds spray and fertilize fields in Japan.

At the Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, drones took video of snowboarding and ski jumping.

The FAA said the airspace in the United States is busier and more complex than in any other nation.

The agency probably will develop rules for small drones, those weighing less than 55 pounds, first. That means drones with which Amazon.com wants to deliver packages might win approval faster than unmanned cargo jets.

An FAA rule requires aircraft to see and avoid other aircraft, but drones lack that ability. The next generation of detection systems using GPS require aircraft to transmit their position and speed, but fitting all aircraft with the systems will be expensive, Jack Langelaan, an associate professor of aerospace engineering at Penn State University, said.

"Until this is solved I don't expect to see regular flights of large, unmanned cargo planes in the national airspace," Langelaan said by email.

At Griffiss International Airport in Rome, N.Y., a research consortium will study avoidance technology. Griffiss is one of six sites that the FAA selected at the end of 2013 to conduct research that will help develop procedures for permitting flights of commercial drones.

Larry Brinker, the executive director of NUAIR Alliance, the organization overseeing the effort at Griffiss, is a former cargo pilot. He said FedEx and United Parcel Service have expressed interest in drones. The Cessna Caravans that air freighters use on regional hops could be modified to fly without pilots when regulations allow, Brinker said.

Langelaan said colleagues at universities around the country hope drones will help them take measurements in the atmosphere, inside the mouth of volcanoes and inside storm clouds that will swirl into tornadoes.

Drones also might help take surveys of wildlife, wetlands and minelands.

Energy companies think drones can monitor pipelines and power plants.

Local governments can keep tabs on land use from the air, whereas realtors can show properties with videos that drones take.

News organizations could use drones to compile traffic reports, and filmmakers have used drones in movies.

In 2011 a filmmaker was flying a radio-controlled plane that was made of Styrofoam and weighed 4 pounds over the University of Virginia to take video and photos for advertisements.

The FAA fined him $10,000, but an administrative law judge with the National Transportation Safety Board dismissed the fine on March 6.

In the ruling, the judge faulted the FAA's reasoning, which he said would have led to unintended consequences such as regulating paper airplanes or balsa-wood gliders. The ruling briefly cast doubt on the FAA's authority to regulate drones, but the FAA appealed and obtained a stay until the full board hears the case.