HSBC Bank (NYSE:HSBC) updated its mortgage rate information for Tuesday, March 11, which shows further improvements in interest rates, following downticks a day earlier. One of the home loans, which eased on Tuesday is the 15-year FRM. Currently, this type of mortgage package is published at a rate of 3.530%, a 3 basis points decrease over the previous 3.560% that it held. On the other hand, the 30-year home loan is holding firm, as it¡¯s been hovering at 4.480% for the second straight day. Turning focus to non-conventional loans, interest rates haven¡¯t seen any changes on long-term FHA and VA mortgages today. Both the 30-year fixed FHA-backed mortgage and the 30-year VA loan are coming out at 4.125%. Shifting to flexible home loan offerings, HSBC advertises the 7/1 adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) at a rate of 3.560%, a 2 basis points slide compared to the former 3.580%. The lender¡¯s 5/1 ARM remained firm, as the mortgage rate stands at 3.330%. More details on HSBC Bank¡¯s current mortgage interest rates can be found below.

HSBC Bank offers excellent interest rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some suitable mortgages at this lender.

Please, bear in mind, that the present mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Bankrate¡¯s (NYSE:RATE) mortgage survey released last week showed that interest rates became more attractive on popular loan packages. The interest rate on 30-year fixed loans ticked down to 4.45% from the previous 4.48% that they carried a week earlier. As for the 15-year FRM, the mortgage rate dropped by 4 basis points, according to Bankrate¡¯s survey. The aforementioned mortgage now stands at 3.46%. The more flexible 5/1 ARM averaged 3.26% in the said period, a 4 basis points downtick over the former 3.30%, the company¡¯s mortgage survey revealed.

A report from McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac from last week indicated that the average interest rate on the 30-year fixed mortgage improved to 4.28%. Regarding the 15-year FRM, the average rate sank to 3.32%, the mortgage-buyer said.

Further information on HSBC Bank¡¯s latest home purchase mortgage interest rates, loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, can be found on the financial institution¡¯s website.