This. 



Talk about what we can expect today. 



Carney is going to be up for a tough time. 



The bank of england put out a statement last week that opened more questions than it answered. 



They refuted claims that have not even been leveled about officials being part of manipulation. 



People are saying how they condone the behavior, not have they been part of it. 



The fact that they have not answered those questions yet and we are still waiting for those answers. 



At the heart of this is that the bank of england had this knowledge eight years ago. 



There is a coziness. 



I spoke to liam, there is a coziness between the fx market and the bank of england. 



How does the treasury committee follow up on the issues? 



That is what they are going to be asking. 



They were alerted to this eight years ago. 



Issues about manipulation. 



Because of the close-knit world you are speaking of, perhaps officials did not see the need to escalate it. 



You may have had the information. 



Why did you not escalate? 



And why did you ask people not to take minutes at that meeting? 



That draws suspicion as to what they did not what taken down that was said. 



War was that just at that time -- it is a nonregulated market. 



Did they really need detailed minutes? 



Is space to issues the bank has been criticized about before, not having consistent systems in place to make sure communication is noted down properly. 



It speaks to the culture. 



This investigation is going to widen. 



We are going to see pressure on the banks to have an independent inquiry. 



So far, they are in control of this investigation. 



The bank cannot be its own judge and jury. 



I think that is what we will hear the committee saying. 



Thank you, suzi. 



That is it from me on the green at westminster. 



Chilly down here. 



You know how chilly it is going to be for mark carney. 



A little hotter than on the