Students, faculty and staff inquiring about the Affordable Care Act can stop by the information and enrollment event in the University Center on Tuesday.

The Health Insurance Marketplace Information Session And Enrollment event gives individuals the chance to speak to navigators, who will inform them about the Affordable Care Act and assist them in enrolling for health insurance.

The Rural Health Outreach Program partnered with the United Way Tarrant County and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to host the event.

Sylvia Rawlings, rural health outreach program director, said that the center staff will be using the healthcare.gov website to answer questions and assist participants in enrolling for insurance.

Rawlings said that there would be individual kiosks for people to access if they wish to apply by themselves.

The event will be held on Tuesday from noon to 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Rio Grande Ballroom on the second floor of the University Center.

Individuals wanting to enroll for insurance will need to bring their social security cards, employer and income information, policy numbers for any current health insurance plans and a completed Employer Coverage Tool provided on the website, according to www.healthcare.gov.

The deadline to enroll is March 31.

Amber Rollin, Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages doctoral student, said that she remembered when she lived overseas in China and other countries that were not as developed as the United States, where health care was a right.

¡°Everyone should have basic health care,¡± Rollin said.

She said that people should go to the event because people hear different things about the act and assume that it¡¯s true.

¡°They should go because they¡¯re not going to be under their parent¡¯s insurance for long,¡± Rollin said. ¡°You need to know about it eventually.¡±

Mathematics junior Maleny Calderon said that she knew about the act for a while now but she hasn¡¯t had time to sign up for the health insurance online.

¡°It¡¯s a great idea to get the word out to students,¡± Calderon said.