Fyffes Plc. (FFY), Europe¡¯s top producer and distributor of tropical fruits said yesterday that it had agreed to merge its operations with American rival Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) to create the largest banana company in the world.

 As part of the agreement, the two companies will merge in an all-stock deal worth $1.07 billion, with combined revenues approaching $4.6 billion, and a workforce of around 32,000. The new combined entity will be called ChiquitaFyffes, and will trade on the New York Stock Exchange, but will be domiciled in Ireland, bringing tax savings similar to US drug maker Perrigo Company¡¯s (PRGO) acquisition of Elan Corporation last year.

 The move to merge the two global banana producers comes amid falling banana prices, which have hit revenues and profitability in recent years, and subsequent efforts to create economies of scale in their business.

 When the deal is completed, Chiquita, which sells bananas under its namesake brand, said that its shareholders would receive a 50.7% stake in the new company. The remaining stock will go to shareholders of Fyffes, who will receive 0.1567 of a share in the new entity for each existing share.

 With a combined equity of $1.07 billion, the deal values the Dublin-based Fyffes at $526 million, almost a 40% premium to its stock price as of Friday, March 7.

 Shares of Fyffes Plc. are up 43% at midday on the London Stock Exchange, while Chiquita shares are up 18% in pre-market trading in New York.

 The proposed merger will nonetheless face scrutiny from regulators who would be concerned of a global monopoly in the banana industry. According to statistics released by the United Nations, almost 80% of the world¡¯s banana market is held by four major food companies - Chiquita, Fyffes, Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. (FDP), and the Dole Food Company. The regulators could point towards antitrust issues that could lead to price fixing among the major players.

 Chiquita has hired Goldman Sachs Group and Wells Fargo, while Fyffes has enlisted Lazard to act as financial advisor to the deal. The merger is expected to be completed by the end of this year.

 Benefits of a Combination

 With combined sales exceeding 160 million boxes of bananas every year, the merger between Chiquita and Fyffes would form the world's largest producer and marketer of bananas.

 Executives of both companies agree that the merger will set them up for greater success and ¡°create significant value for shareholders¡± while providing a globally integrated supply chain to save on costs. The tie-up is expected to result in pre-tax cost reductions of around $40 million through 2016. In addition, the company¡¯s proposed domicile in Ireland will provide further tax benefits for ChiquitaFyffes.

 Fyffes is currently the largest producer of bananas in Europe and is a major producer of pineapples, melons, and packaged salads in the continent. The company also sells its products under the Sol brand, and had around $1.1 billion in revenues in fiscal year 2013.

 Chiquita, with revenues in excess of $3.5 billion in 2013, has maintained that the brands of both companies will remain distinct even after the merger: ¡°We will maintain our brands, all of which are valued by both customers and consumers," said Ed Lonergan, CEO of Chiquita Brands.

 The two companies are hoping that the new combination will offer a well-integrated foods group for investors, while providing customers with diverse product choices and a higher quality brands.

 ¡°This deal will be transformative and offer exciting opportunities for the new business,¡± said Fyffe chairman David McCann, in a statement yesterday. ¡°We believe we will be able to use our joint expertise, complementary assets and geographic coverage to develop a business that can run smoothly and efficiently to better partner with our customers and suppliers.¡±

 The latest deal also comes at a time when banana producers have experienced a number of hurdles. Revenue growth has been quite challenging to achieve given that the price of bananas in Europe has fallen from 1.08 a kilogram in 2002 to 68p in 2014. Chiquita and Fyffes are essentially looking to achieve the benefits from economies of scale, and cost synergies, as well as partnering up in sourcing suppliers, many of which are located in developing countries like Colombia, Guatemala, and Suriname.

 As part of the merger agreement, Fyffes chairman, David McCann will become CEO of ChiquitaFyffes, with Chiquita CEO Ed Lonergan set to become chairman of the new company.