U.S. Navy SEALs take control of North Korean-flagged tanker Morning Glory from Libyan rebels in dramatic raid off coast of Cyprus
 None The dramatic raid took place at midnight, 18 miles southwest of Cyprus
 None The SEALs swept through ship arresting rebels. No injuries reported
 None It was taken by Libyan rebels, demanding more oil wealth and autonomy
 None They had loaded 37-ton ship with crude oil stolen from port of Es Sider



U.S. Navy SEALs stormed a North Korean oil tanker off the coast of Cyprus last night after it was stolen and held for ransom by a mob of armed Libyan rebels.

Under cover of darkness, the elite team of commandos swooped onto the from a helicopter after tracking it down to a bolt hole some 18 miles southwest of the island nation.



A Pentagon spokesman said they were met with next to no resistance as they swept silently through the vessel's corridors and cabins, arresting all inside. Nobody was injured in the operation.



The vessel was stolen from the port of Es Sider last month by Libyan anti-Government insurgents, who are demanding a greater share of oil wealth and autonomy from the country's fledgling administration.

had managed to load crude oil onto the 37,000 tonne-tanker, which escaped the Libyan navy, embarrassing the weak central government and prompting parliament to vote the prime minister out of offic

No one was hurt in the boarding operation, approved by U.S. President Barack Obama, requested by the Libyan and Cypriot governments and conducted in international waters southeast of Cyprus, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said.

'The Morning Glory is carrying a cargo of oil owned by the Libyan government National Oil Company. The ship and its cargo were illicitly obtained' from the Libyan port of Es Sider, his statement said.

The Cypriot ministry of foreign affairs said the vessel was now heading west in the Mediterranean with a U.S. military escort. It was parked 18 miles southwest of Cyprus when the operation occurred around midnight Cyprus time.

The standoff over control of OPEC member Libya's oil is one facet of wider turmoil that has engulfed the vast North African country since the fall of Muammar Gaddafi nearly three years ago.

The government and nascent army have struggled to control brigades of former anti-Gaddafi fighters who have refused to disarm and have used their military muscle to make political demands on the state, often by targeting the vital oil sector.