Mortgage rates on conventional home purchase and refinance loans remained firm at Branch Banking and Trust (NYSE:BBT) on Tuesday, March 11. Following the improvements on mortgage rates on 10-year home loans a day earlier, this type of loan retained its level today. The aforementioned home loan is listed at a rate of 3.000%. Home purchase loans which come with 15-year term are advertised at a rate of 3.375% at this lender. Moving up on the scale, BB&T¡¯s 20-year FRM is currently published at a rate of 4.125%, unchanged compared to yesterday¡¯s rate quote. With regards to the long-term, 30-year conventional home loan, it remained stable at 4.375%, according to BB&T¡¯s latest data.

Switching to the lender¡¯s non-conventional home loan offerings, today we noticed some lower rates on long-term VA and FHA-insured mortgages. Both the 30-year fixed FHA loan and the 30-year VA mortgage start at 3.750%, a downtick compared to the previous 3.875% that they carried on Monday. For further details on today¡¯s home purchase rates, as well as information on current refinance rates, please check the data below.

Branch Banking and Trust has been offering excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some suitable mortgage deals at this lender.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in Washington, DC. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to refinance an existing mortgage with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in Washington, DC. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Please, note that the current mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

For more information on current mortgage rates at BB&T Bank, borrowing terms and conditions, as well as further mortgage packages, please see the financial institution¡¯s website.