Herbalife is facing an inquiry from the Federal Trade Commission. The nutrition and supplement vendor said it received the civil investigative demand from the FTC on Wednesday. A representative from the FTC was not immediately available to comment. Herbalife said it welcomes the inquiry, noting a ¡°tremendous amount of misinformation in the marketplace¡± about its business. The company said it believes it is in compliance with all laws and regulations and plans to cooperate fully. On Tuesday, hedge fund manager William Ackman renewed his attacks on the company. Ackman has repeatedly bet against the company and said he believes it operates as a pyramid scheme. Herbalife Ltd.'s shares plunged more than 12 percent when a suspension in trading was lifted.

Federal prosecutors say a New York-based investment bank and broker-dealer has agreed to pay $25 million in penalties for misleading customers trading in residential mortgage-backed securities. The U.S. attorney's office in New Haven announced on Wednesday that as part of the non-prosecution agreement, Jefferies LLC will pay up to $11 million in restitution to victims and up to $4.2 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission. U.S. Attorney Deirdre Daly said employees in Jefferies' fixed income division repeatedly misled their customers to boost their profits. Daly said management not only tolerated illegal practices but encouraged them. Jefferies has cooperated and implemented changes. A former Jefferies executive was convicted earlier of defrauding investment funds established as part of the government's response to the 2008 financial crisis.

II-VI Inc. said Mary Jane Raymond was appointed chief financial officer effective March 20. She will replace Craig A. Creaturo, whose resignation was announced on Nov. 6. Creaturo will remain with the company through April 4 and will continue as an adviser through August to ensure a smooth transition. CEO Francis J. Kramer said Creaturo provided a strong financial environment at II-VI for 15 years and it wishes him the best in his future endeavors. Raymond holds a bachelor's degree in public management from St. Joseph's University and an MBA from Stanford University and is a certified management accountant. She recently was chief financial officer of Hudson Global Inc., and was chief risk officer and corporate controller at Dun and Bradstreet Inc.

The company behind the addictive blockbuster game ¡°Candy Crush Saga¡± believes it could raise nearly $613 million in an initial public offering. In a regulatory filing on Wednesday, King Digital Entertainment PLC said it plans to sell 15.3 million shares in the offering. Existing shareholders will sell an additional 6.7 million shares. ¡°Candy Crush¡± was the most downloaded free app on iPhones and iPads in 2013, beating Facebook, Google Maps and YouTube. The shares are expected to be priced between $21 and $24, for a total of $466.2 million to $532.8 million. Underwriters have the option of buying as many as 3.3 million additional shares. That could raise an extra $69.9 million to $79.9 million. Shares would be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ¡°KING.¡±

Mylan Inc. has introduced a generic version of an overdose drug in the United States and is expanding into critical care drugs in India with an antifungal drug. The Cecil-based generic drugmaker said it received approval from the Food and Drug Administration to sell Naloxone Hydrochloride single-dose injections, considered a bioequivalent of the Naloxone made by Lake Forest, Ill.-based Hospira Inc. The drug had U.S. sales of $12.3 million in the 12 months ended Dec. 31. Meanwhile, Mylan said it introduced the antifungal drug AmBisome in India, the first product the company is selling as part of a focus on the $2.6 billion critical care segment of the Indian pharmaceutical market. The segment includes antibiotics, anticoagulants and antifungals. Mylan said it expects to introduce several more critical care products, including high-end antibiotics, in the near future.
 A German dialysis company will close its Renal Solutions unit in Warrendale next year, a move that will cost 38 people their jobs. Fresenius Medical Care AG said it will transfer the operation to a plant in Concord, Calif., during the first half of 2015. Fresenius bought Renal Solutions, which makes an artificial kidney device, in 2007 for $190 million.
Ansaldo STS USA Inc. on Wednesday named Marco Fumagalli CEO and president at its headquarters in South Oakland. The company makes equipment for the rail transit industry. Fumagalli replaces Thomas Lawton, who will remain a counsel to the company. Ansaldo STS, a subsidiary of Italian manufacturer Finmeccanica, purchased Union Switch & Signal of Pittsburgh in 1988.