Stocks have moved mostly higher in morning trading on Tuesday, attempting another rebound following the downturn seen over the course of the previous session. The major averages all climbed firmly into positive territory.

In recent trading, the major averages have given back ground, although they currently remain positive. The Dow is up 132.11 points or 0.5 percent at 24,575.03, the Nasdaq is up 17.02 points or 0.2 percent at 7,067.32 and the S&P 500 is up 10.58 points or 0.4 percent at 2,651.83.

The rebound on Wall Street comes after the pullback seen on Monday dragged the Nasdaq and the S&P 500 down to six-month closing lows and the Dow fell to its lowest closing level in well over three months.

Traders are once again looking to pick up stocks at reduced levels after bargain hunting efforts in the previous session were thwarted by renewed concerns about the trade war between the U.S. and China.

President Donald Trump's prediction the U.S. will reach a "great deal" with China on trade has offset some of the concerns, although the president warned of more tariffs if a deal is not possible.

"I think that we will make a great deal with China and it has to be great, because they've drained our country," Trump told Laura Ingraham of Fox News on Monday.

The comments from Trump came after a report from Bloomberg said the U.S. is preparing to announce tariffs on all remaining Chinese imports if next month's talks between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping fail to ease the trade war.

Trump and Xi are expected to meet on the sidelines of a Group of 20 summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina, beginning November 30th.

Positive sentiment may also have been generated by a report from the Conference Board showing a continued increase in consumer confidence in the month of September.

The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index rose to 137.9 in October from a downwardly revised 135.3 in September.

Economists had expected the consumer confidence index to drop to 136.3 from the 138.4 originally reported for the previous month.

With the increase, the consumer confidence index reached its highest level since hitting 142.5 in September of 2000.

Housing starts have shown a substantial move to the upside in morning trading, driving the Philadelphia Housing Sector Index up by 2.3 percent. The index is bouncing off its lowest closing level in well over a year.

Construction materials maker Vulcan Materials (VMC) is leading the housing sector higher after reporting better than expected third quarter results.

Semiconductor, computer hardware, telecom, and transportation stocks are also seeing considerable strength, moving higher along with most of the other major sectors.

On the other hand, oil service stocks are extending a recent sell-off, dragging the Philadelphia Oil Service Index down by 2 percent to its lowest intraday level in over nine years.

The continued weakness among oil service stocks comes amid a steep drop by the price of crude oil, with crude for December delivery tumbling $1.39 to $65.65 a barrel.

In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region moved mostly higher during trading on Tuesday. Japan's Nikkei 225 Index surged up by 1.5 percent, while China's Shanghai Composite Index jumped by 1 percent.

Meanwhile, the major European markets are turning in a lackluster performance on the day. While the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index is just above the unchanged line, the German DAX Index is down by 0.2 percent and the French CAC 40 Index is down by 0.4 percent.

In the bond market, treasuries have climbed off their lows of the session but remain in negative territory. As a result, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, is up by 1.5 basis points at 3.102 percent.