BEIJING, March 13 (Yonhap) -- Chinese Premier Li Keqiang urged the United States on Thursday to focus on mutual interests, admitting some "frictions" in their bilateral ties amid tensions with Washington over Beijing's increasingly assertive naval reach in Asia and maritime disputes with its neighbors.

Speaking at his annual press conference, Li, however, gave a relatively upbeat assessment about the prospect of the relationship between the world's top two economies and militaries, saying, "There is much more that we can do to further unleash the potential of China-U.S. cooperation. We need to make the most of our complementarity."



 China's rise and military modernization have increased tensions with its Asian neighbors at a time when it is embroiled in bitter territorial disputes with Japan and other nations over islands in the East China Sea and South China Sea.

The maritime disputes, along with North Korea's nuclear standoff, are the region's top security headaches as the U.S. has taken steps to expand security cooperation with its Asian nations as part of its "pivot to Asia" policy.

"China and the United States are different in history, culture and stage of development," Li told reporters. "So, it's only natural that these two countries have some differences, and they also have differences or frictions in the course of their cooperation."



 "But I believe that these are the pains amidst growing cooperation," Li said.

Li, China's No. 2 leader, made no mention of specific issues on regional security concerns, with his two-hour-long press conference largely focusing on the economy and other domestic matters.

However, Li stressed his country's "unwavering commitment to pursuing peaceful development and unshakable will in safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity."



 "As long as the two sides respect each other's core interests and major concerns and properly manage their differences, these two countries will be able to further raise the level of their relationship."



 "The common interests between China and the United States far outweigh their differences," Li said.

"As the Chinese saying goes, 'the wise will seek common interests, while the unwise focus on their differences,' " Li said. "China and the United States need to focus more on common grounds and pursue long-term benefits."



 Li held the press conference at the end of China's annual legislative session, which has been overshadowed by news of a Malaysia Airlines flight that disappeared last week with 239 people including 150 Chinese on board.

The premier said China will step up search efforts "as long as there is a glimmer of hope," adding that "Those people's families and friends are burning with anxiety."



 kdh@yna.co.kr