LONDON, March 11 (Reuters) - Bank of England Governor Mark Carney and other top policymakers from the central bank are speaking in Britain's parliament.

Below are highlights from their comments in a hearing of the Treasury Committee in the House of Commons.

"I think we're moving back to where we started. But we're still in a position where we're providing considerably more guidance than we did in the past. We will welcome the day when we get back to status quo."

ON HOW MUCH RATES COULD RISE

"We have provided guidance about how we think interest rates would adjust when the time comes to adjust them. In other words, in a gradual and to a limited extent.

"Some members of the MPC have put more precise figures on the extent to which interest rates would be expected to rise over the three-year horizon.

"Charlie Bean yesterday referenced 2.5 percentage points. I don't think that's an unreasonable sense to get across - a 2-2.5 percent bank rate over the course of the forecast horizon."

"We expect that when the time comes ... to begin to raise interest rates, we would expect that process to be gradual and we would expect the degree increases to be limited.

"The limited level of increases is occasioned by the fact that we are still, we will still, in our collective judgement be living in extraordinary times a few years down the road where we have weakness from abroad, particularly Europe; ongoing fiscal consolidation; we have a global savings glut occasioned from emerging markets; and we also have a financal system which we think is going to settle out having higher costs of credit relatively to the risk-free level of interest rate, and we need to take all those factors into that account."

"We do expect that over the course of the projection horizon that mortgage costs will increase because of, just using the market curve of interest rates, we don't expect much further compression of spreads, so there should be an increase in floating rate mortgage costs over the course of the next few years."

"Underwriting standards at present of mortgage providers are quite high ... Our concern is that those underwriting standards will deteriorate and that that deterioration itself would be fed by general improvement in the housing market."

"Our concern would also be that a rising housing market, occasioned in part because of the dynamics in prime central London would encourage individuals to take greater risk without fully incorporating an entire interest rate cycle, and cycles, that would transpire over the life of a mortgage."

"What we've learnt over the course of the last seven months since we put in place the first phase of forward guidance, or so what I've learnt, is that that equilibrium rate of unemployment has gone down. It's lower than we would have thought in August and in August we estimated as a committee that it was about 6.5 percent. I personally would mark it around 6 now, potentially slightly lower.

"So we have a 7.2 percent unemployment rate a year at present, relative to a medium-term equilibrium level of about 6 percent."

"We ranged in the February inflation report (that spare capacity) was 1-1.5 percent. I personally would be at the upper end of that range and I would add that the margin, given the most recent employment report, that it would probably be slightly higher than that 1.5 percent."

"From the second quarter onwards growth has been at close to trend rates. At the same time, partly as a result of the rise in the exchange rate, inflation has dropped to slightly below its target; I had thought inflation would remain above target for rather longer."

"Overall, my best estimate of the amount of spare capacity in the economy is something under 1 percent."

"My personal view would be that there is some spare capacity in firms as well as in the labour market ... but there are different views on the committee on that."