Last week, Canadian-based online bitcoin bank Flexcoin was forced to close down after losing about $600,000 in the virtual currency to hackers. The shuttering came hot on the heels of the collapse of MtGox, once the world's largest bitcoin exchange, which filed for bankruptcy protection in Japan at the end of last month after someone hacked into its system and stole some 850,000 bitcoins, representing around 7 percent of the estimated global total of the digital currency.



For the beleaguered bitcoin market, these thefts are just the tip of the iceberg. Unless bitcoin can recover its credibility, these recent setbacks could mark its demise.



For a decentralized currency like bitcoin, confidence means everything. When hacker attacks caused several bitcoin exchanges, including MtGox, to suspend withdrawals of the currency in February, its value plummeted down below $600, compared to a peak of $1,124 in late November.



Since its introduction in 2009, bitcoin has become increasingly popular thanks to its ease of global transaction, difficulty in counterfeiting, high standardization, decentralization and inflation immunity due to a hard limit of 21 million. Compared to real-world currencies, perhaps the most unique feature of bitcoins is its decentralization, which means that the value of the digital currency is set independently of any bank or government.



However, the decentralized nature of bitcoin is also a fatal flaw for the crypto-currency as there's nothing real to support its credibility; unlike gold for example, which is a physical commodity that has intrinsic value. As bitcoins do not have a financially sound issuer or any institutional valuation basis, its price could be very volatile and easily affected by outside factors. Looking back, losses of bitcoins to hackers have happened several times in the past, shaking investor confidence and causing sharp plunges in its prices. So for a currency which relies on user trust, if its credibility foundation is compromised, then its value would suffer enormously.



In the meantime, hacker attacks are just one of the risks facing bitcoins. Since the online virtual currency has aroused concerns over financial stability, money laundering and other illegal activities, many governments are considering restrictions against bitcoins. 



Unlike a traceable credit card or online banking transfer, bitcoin transactions are relatively similar to cash transactions in that they are both nearly impossible to trace. The Silk Road, an eBay-like bitcoin exchange that included listings for guns and heroin, was recently shut down by the US authorities, Reuters reported. 



Meanwhile, Canada was said to be tightening rules to keep closer track of virtual currencies to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Also, in December 2013, the largest bitcoin exchange in China was required to stop accepting deposits in renminbi, a move which drove prices down considerably. Given investor complaints pertaining to the collapse of MtGox, more regulatory scrutiny and restrictions could be expected in the coming years.



While hacker attacks and tightened regulations may hurt its value, bitcoin copycats are meanwhile undermining its status as a unique virtual currency. Even though only 21 million bitcoins will ever be created, the crypto-currency market can expand limitlessly as new alternatives to bitcoins can always be created without laws or regulations to stop copycats. 



In the wake of bitcoin's success last year, a variety of competing crypto-currencies were quickly introduced. In fact, there were already more than 140 copycats by the end of 2013. 



In this sense, it could be just a matter of time before bitcoins lose their uniqueness. Take litecoin, currently the most popular bitcoin alternative, as an example. By the end of last year, the total circulation value of litecoin had exceeded $1 billion.



Nonetheless, bitcoin is an obvious breakthrough in terms of financial market innovation. Maybe its most fundemental problem now is that it's too surreal and forward-looking, at least from the point of view of existing political and economic establishments. While bitcoin hints at future evolutions in the world financial market, it may be too early yet for the world to completely embrace it.



The author is a CCTV financial commentator. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn



China Business News