SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡ª Gold futures on Tuesday settled near $1,350 an ounce, scoring a second-consecutive session gain as worries over Ukraine and concerns surrounding a slowdown in Chinese economic growth lifted the metal¡¯s safe-haven appeal for investors.

Gold for April delivery US:GCJ4 rose $5.20, or 0.4%, to settle at $1,346.70 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange after earlier touching a high of $1,353.

Others metals settled lower, however, with May silver US:SIK4 shedding 9.5 cents, or 0.5%, to $20.815 an ounce after a minor loss in the previous session.

¡°Gold¡¯s appeal as a safe haven has been among a growing list of reasons behind the recent price gains,¡± said Fawad Razaqzada, a technical analyst at Forex.com.

¡°The on-going situation in Ukraine, for example, coupled with growing concerns about the Chinese and U.S. economies, as well as anxiety surrounding the Indian general election have all helped to boost the metal¡¯s appeal in this regard,¡± he told MarketWatch in an email.

¡°With India¡¯s trade deficit narrowing to just $8.13 billion in February, albeit as a result a sharp fall in imports, the pressure is meanwhile growing on India to relax some of the trade restrictions on precious metal,¡± he said.

Indeed, there was already underlying strength in gold that was unrelated to geopolitical concerns, said Brien Lundin, editor of Gold Newsletter.

Even before the Russian invasion of Crimea, we saw gold exchange-traded fund flows reverse, from the outflows so common last year to inflows as Western investors began buying again, he said. ¡°And from the start of the new year, we¡¯ve seen Asian gold demand, particularly from China, continue at record or near-record levels.¡±

The SPDR Gold Fund GLD, +0.08% the world¡¯s largest gold-backed ETF, saw its shares climb 0.6% Tuesday afternoon. It¡¯s gained nearly 12% year-to-date.

Gold traders also looked ahead to this week¡¯s spate of U.S. economic data for clues on the outcome of the Federal Reserve¡¯s monetary-policy decision on March 19. Many of the economic figures this week will be released Thursday, including weekly jobless claims, retail sales and business inventories. Producer price index and consumer sentiment data will come out Friday.

On Monday, gold futures shrugged off a slow start for the week to finish nearly 0.3% higher, while copper futures lost 1.7%, pressured by disappointing data out of China. Read: China exports drop unexpectedly, create deficit.

High-grade copper for May delivery US:HGK4 on Tuesday extended Monday¡¯s losses to finish at $2.95 a pound, down 8 cents, or 2.6%. Read about what direction copper prices may take next.

April platinum US:PLJ4 fell $12.60, or 0.9%, to $1,464.60 an ounce, while June palladium US:PAM4 lost $6.35, or 0.8%, to $770.50 an ounce. Both contracts already experienced losses in the previous session.

Copper prices may have hit bottom, next move up: Barclays

What to do with your bubble stocks

The chart that explains why the White House expects the economy to accelerate

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.