March 19 will present a new way for Starbucks customers to tip their barista via the company's iPhone App the company said in a press release Wednesday.

Customers throughout the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada will see a smoother design, be able to conveniently log into their My Starbucks rewards account information and leave a tip digitally via the app at the company's over 7,000 locations throughout the United States.

"With more than 11 percent of transactions a week now happening with a mobile device in our stores, and nearly 10 million customers currently using our mobile app, we're thrilled to make the digital experience even easier and more rewarding for our customers and partners," Adam Brotman, chief digital officer at Starbucks said in a statement. "This update to the Starbucks App for iPhone is an important next step in digital innovation at Starbucks and one of the many ways we'll expand and improve our digital experience in the months to come."

The digital tipping concept grew to popularity from Starbuck's My Starbucks Idea, where customers could express their thoughts, cast decisions, converse, and follow through on suggestions about ways visiting Starbucks can be enriched the press release reported.

"As more and more customers are using their phone to pay, they have also asked for a convenient and meaningful way to show their appreciation to store partners," Cliff Burrows, group president, U.S., Americas and Teavana said in a statement.. "We're proud to offer digital tipping as an option through the updated Starbucks for iPhone app for customers in the U.S."

The app allows customers to make a mobile payment, give extra contributions, digital tipping, a shake to pay option using the barcode on their mobile device, view how many rewards they have used and still have to use, put more money on their Starbucks card via a credit card,, search for Starbucks locations around the area they are in, and give beverages, food, or other inventory to friends and family.

Customers can use Starbucks mobile app until the company new technological options.

The app protects users information including usernames, e-mail addresses, and passwords according to a post on Starbuck's blog Jan. 16.

Consumers can elect to not have their password stored in the app, which requires them to enter their username and password when they use the app Computer World reported.