LONDON ¡ª The Bank of England, entangled in a sprawling probe of possible manipulation in currency markets, will appoint a new senior official to tighten internal oversight and will join forces with other central banks to examine what has happened, its governor, Mark Carney, said Tuesday.

Carney, testifying in front of a parliamentary committee just days after the central bank suspended one of its own staff members in connection with the foreign-exchange probe, said he would go ¡°above and beyond¡± to reaffirm the bank¡¯s standards.

¡°We can¡¯t come out of this with a shadow of doubt about the integrity of the Bank of England,¡± he said. ¡°The institution has to be beyond reproach.¡±

The bank hasn¡¯t said precisely why the employee was suspended, but it has said its examination has so far found ¡°no evidence¡± of staff members¡¯ colluding in market manipulation.

During tense testimony, Carney said the BOE first became aware of allegations that it could be pulled into the probe on Oct. 16. The central bank immediately launched an internal investigation to ascertain the involvement of its staff, he said, but kept that secret for months. Carney said the bank¡¯s publicly released minutes were redacted to exclude any mention of the matter.

The new deputy governor, who will focus on financial markets and banking, will have a role overseeing BOE employees¡¯ relationships with market participants. ¡°One of the first tasks of that individual is that he or she will conduct a root-and-branch review of how we conduct market intelligence and how we use it,¡± Carney said.

The $5.3 trillion-a-day currencies market is largely unregulated, but attention has turned toward the BOE¡¯s role because of its close relationship with currencies traders and bankers dating back several years, particularly in the form of committee meetings for bankers and traders that it hosted. At issue is whether the central bank has, directly or otherwise, sanctioned or participated in any of the forms of behavior among traders that are now under scrutiny.

An expanded version of this report appears on WSJ.com

Passengers on missing jet with fake passports were Iranian

Want news about Europe delivered to your inbox? Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Europe Daily newsletter. Sign up here.