China's yuan weakened against the US dollar on Monday after the central bank doubled the currency's trading band as part of broad financial reforms.



The People's Bank of China (PBC), the central bank, said Saturday it would allow the yuan to move up or down 2 percent daily - double the previous 1 percent - either side of a mid-point set under the guidance of the bank.



The yuan was trading at 6.1780 to the dollar at close on Monday, the first trading day after the reform, compared with Friday's close of 6.1502, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System.



Analysts said the move to widen the band would introduce greater volatility in trading on the national foreign exchange market, but stressed the PBC could still exercise control over the yuan.



"We view this move as another major step in the direction of allowing the market to play a more important role in exchange rate setting," investment bank Goldman Sachs said in research note released Monday.



But it noted, "If the PBC wish, they can still move the rate in the direction they want, since this band only affects how much [the] rate can move intra-day."



Policymakers have pledged to move gradually toward full convertibility of the yuan, allowing it to be freely bought and sold, and bringing with it the uncontrolled movement of funds in and out of China.



China keeps a tight grip on its capital account - investment and financial transactions, rather than those related to trade - on worries that unpredictable flows of funds could harm the economy and reduce its control over it.



China has widened the trading band previously, most recently moving from 0.5 percent to 1 percent in 2012. But the latest move comes under the new leadership after a decade-long period when financial reforms largely slowed.



"Increasing the flexibility of the exchange rate has been a long-term objective for the government ... so much so that the market has been somewhat disappointed that this did not occur in 2013," said Wang Tao, head of China economic research for investment bank UBS.



The yuan steadily appreciated against the US dollar last year, rising more than 3 percent.



But last month the yuan suddenly reversed course, at one point closing at an eight-month low, in what dealers believed to be a deliberate move by the central bank to target speculative funds betting on continued rises.



AFP