* Much still up for grabs, including imposing investor

losses

BRUSSELS, March 10 (Reuters) - European governments and

lawmakers will try to reach a deal this week on how to wind down

failing banks, clearing the way for a landmark reform as time

runs out to win European Parliament approval before May

elections.

Negotiations are set to span days and may be the final step

in a European banking union that would mean one supervisor for

euro zone banks, one set of rules to close or restructure those

in trouble and one pot of money to pay for it.

"There will not be an outcome today or tomorrow, because the

real negotiations will take place on Wednesday and days after

that if necessary," Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who is chairing

Monday's meeting of euro ministers, told reporters, referring to

talks with the European Parliament's lawmakers.

As he entered for the first day of talks with European

counterparts, Spain's Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said he

was optimistic agreement could be clinched.

Talks on a new European agency to shut down failing banks,

and on a fund to pay for such closures, need to be agreed before

the last sitting of the European Parliament in mid-April.

Failure to do so would delay the law by at least seven

months, and probably more. It could also mean it is scrutinised

by a new group of lawmakers with a higher count of eurosceptics,

as such parties are expected to do well in the May poll.

The banking union, and the clean-up of banks' books that

will accompany it, is intended to restore banks' confidence in

one another and boost lending across the currency bloc, helping

foster growth in the 18 economies that use the euro.

"This is a large scale political project which will allow

countries to borrow at the same rate whether you are Spanish,

Italian, German or French," French Finance Minister Pierre

Moscovici told reporters.

New lending has been throttled by banks' efforts to raise

capital and cut their risks in recession.

The banking union is also supposed to break the vicious

circle of indebted states and the banks that buy their debt,

treated in law as 'risk-free' despite Greece's default in all

but name.

Euro zone banks now hold about 1.75 trillion euros of

government debt, equivalent to 5.7 percent of their assets and

the highest relative exposure since 2006, according to the

European Central Bank. In Italy and Spain, roughly one in every

10 euros in the banking system is now on loan to governments.

The biggest political reform since the launch of the euro

currency, banking union also touches on sensitive issues for

investors, including the imposition of losses on bondholders of

failing banks.

Policymakers agreed last year that the European Central Bank

will be the supervisor for euro zone banks, a role it takes on

in November.

In return for giving its blessing to the wider scheme,

Germany wants to see losses imposed from that point onwards on

bondholders and others who have backed troubled banks.

Officials caution that a deal may not be possible this week

and could be postponed until the end of the month.

To further complicate matters, European governments disagree

not only amongst themselves, but also with the European

Parliament, which must give its blessing to the project before

it can become law.

At the heart of the dispute is the complex process of

closing a bank. Countries are reluctant to cede authority to

Brussels and want a laborious system of checks before any

decision to shut a bank can be taken.

EU finance ministers agreed in early December that a

decision on closing down a bank in the euro zone would be taken

by the board of the resolution agency, but that the decision

must then be signed into law by the finance ministers.

Under that scenario, if the ministers want to change the

board's decision, they also have to involve the European

Commission and start a procedure so complex that it is doubtful

it can be completed quickly.

The European Parliament, on the other hand, wants no

involvement of EU ministers, arguing it would politicise the

process and make it cumbersome. It wants leave the final

go-ahead to the more impartial European Commission.

Parliament also wants the ECB - the supervisor of all banks

- to be the only institution to declare a bank is failing. EU

governments want the agency board and national authorities to

have a say.

Governments and parliamentarians also disagree on how

quickly to build up the 'resolution' fund, used to cover the

costs of shutting a bank, and how soon countries should be able

to dip into the pot. The fund will be filled by euro zone banks

and is slated to reach around 55 billion euros ($76 billion).

Governments want the fund to reach full size over 10 years,

while the parliament wants the fund to be fully available to all

euro zone countries after just three years.

Finally, policymakers must decide if they will allow this

fund to borrow if it is short of cash, or if it should borrow

from the euro zone bailout fund or receive state guarantees.