The deadline to sign up for some kind of medical bill payment program is still two weeks away, but it is already obvious to anyone who has been paying attention that the Affordable Care Act ¡ª the inaccurate euphemism by which Obamacare is often known ¡ª is a complete failure and will never be enacted.



It's not the Republican Party's steadfast opposition that led to Obamacare's demise, though. It turns out the Republicans didn't have to trouble themselves with their attempts to repeal it, because the Obama administration's politically and ideologically motivated actions have emasculated the Democrats' purported health care reform law.

The deadline to sign up for some kind of medical bill payment program is still two weeks away, but it is already obvious to anyone who has been paying attention that the Affordable Care Act ¡ª the inaccurate euphemism by which Obamacare is often known ¡ª is a complete failure and will never be enacted.

It¡¯s not the Republican Party¡¯s steadfast opposition that led to Obamacare¡¯s demise, though. It turns out the Republicans didn¡¯t have to trouble themselves with their attempts to repeal it, because the Obama administration¡¯s politically and ideologically motivated actions have emasculated the Democrats¡¯ purported health care reform law.

Almost as soon as the Democrats passed the bill so we could find out what was in it, the Obama administration began to grant waiver after waiver to various groups and organizations, usually (and not coincidentally) elements of the Democratic Party¡¯s coalition.

Then came the stupendously disastrous rollout of the federal government¡¯s Obamacare website.

Then came the wave of insurance policy cancellations, leading to the revelation that when Obama repeatedly said, ¡°If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan,¡± he was knowingly, deliberately lying. To be sure, that shouldn¡¯t have been a revelation to anyone who was paying attention or anyone who is wise to the ways of politicians, but most people don¡¯t pay attention and aren¡¯t as wise to politicians¡¯ ways as they should be (or as they may think they are).

That was followed by another waiver ¡ª one that potentially could gut the law: In some cases, people would be allowed to ask their insurance providers if they can have their old, superior policies back, even though their old policies don¡¯t comply with Obamacare¡¯s requirements.

Among the other waivers granted by the Obama administration, the ¡°employer mandate¡± to provide staff with at least basic coverage or face a fine has been delayed, and those whose plans were canceled will be temporarily exempt from the ¡°individual mandate¡± to purchase health insurance.

Initially the exemption would have expired in September this year, but the White House was not about to let that happen right before midterm elections in which ObamaDebacle is expected to help the Republicans pick up Senate seats and perhaps win back control of Congress.

And so, early this month, came another waiver. A really big one ¡ª so big, it wasn¡¯t even announced.

Now some people will be allowed to renew their non-compliant policies until 2016, by which time the president will be preparing to leave the White House and will no longer have to worry about the political consequences of this rotten law. Millions of Americans will be allowed to avoid paying the individual mandate penalty by claiming that the cancellation of their policies constitutes ¡°hardship.¡±

When news of this serious revision of the Obamacare law finally got out last week, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius initially testified before the House Ways and Means Committee Wednesday that the reports were ¡°not accurate¡± ¡­ only to backtrack and concede that the reports were accurate after all. (In that, she at least shows herself to be more honorable and honest than Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who still has not retracted his claim that all of the insurance cancellation horror stories that the press has been reporting are fake.)

What makes this latest Obamacare waiver such a big deal is that Obamacare simply doesn¡¯t work without the individual mandate ¡ª unless nearly everyone is forced to either buy extremely expensive health insurance or sign up for welfare, the entire system breaks down. To pay the high medical costs of those who are high-risk, such as those with preexisting conditions, and to pay for all of the ¡°free¡± contraceptive and abortifacient drugs and procedures, insurance companies need everyone to buy their health plans. Once you start exempting millions of Americans who otherwise would have had to comply with the new law, it all falls apart.

Thus, we find ourselves watching the insane spectacle of the president effectively repealing and delaying the individual mandate while threatening to veto any bill that repeals or delays the individual mandate.

Here¡¯s what I want to know: If the powers that be never had any real intention of enacting and enforcing this monstrosity of a law, why did they bother to foist it on an unwilling populace in the first place? They could have saved us, and our employers and insurance providers a lot of trouble.

Unless a lot of trouble was the whole point all along?

Community editor Jared Olar may be reached at 346-1111, ext. 660, or at jolar@pekintimes.com. The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those of the Pekin Daily Times.