Retail giant Amazon has recently announced that their popular Prime service will increase in price from $79 to $99 a year in a controversial first price hike since the service was started nine years ago. Amazon justified the increase, claiming it was essential to compensate for the transportation and fuel costs in the free delivery of orders within two days.

Prime is one of several membership programs offered by Amazon. For a yearly membership fee of $79, users can get unlimited quick One-Day Delivery for qualified orders, cheaper rates on upgrades to Evening and Express Delivery, as well as access to movies, TV episodes and Kindle books.

A recent survey showed that 94 percent of users would want to renew their Prime membership at $79 but only 58 percent would renew their membership if the price was increased to $99.

Here are some additional ways for Amazon Prime members to enjoy benefits, available until March 20:
 Amazon Prime Gift Membership. At $79, membership is for one year. Arrange for your membership to start after the expiration date of your present membership.
 Amazon Student. You receive discounts for a $49 fee but must have a valid .edu email address to qualify.
 Free Super Saving Shipping Deal. This applies for orders worth over $35.
 Subscribe and Save Membership. This allows you to get savings of up to as much as 15 percent on qualified products including free shipping.
 Zinc Plug-in for discounted shipping costs. Zinc is a new, easy and free to install plug-in that allows you to get discounts on every Amazon order. It works well with Google Chrome.
 Apply for a Credit Card with Prime. AmericanExpress and other credit cards include Amazon Prime as a perk for free to new members.
 Continue shopping on other sites offering free shipping. ShopRunner, a competitor of Amazon, offered a "complimentary one-year membership" to current Prime members. It includes limitless 2-day shipping for switching membership. The membership fee is $79/year and $8.95/month for service. ShopRunner offers the usual incentives plus a 30-day free trial and markdowns for members of AmericanExpress.