It's quite an irony to think that the relatives and families of the passengers on board the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 become more hopeful with the hijacking theory that has been recently emerging, than discovering that the plane may have crashed.

One of the loved ones of the missing passengers has been constantly active on social media, encouraging other victims to help each other and finally find an answer to all the oddity behind such an unexpected event, LA Times reports.

Sarah Bajc, who is a 48-year-old American teacher, has 50-year-old partner Philip Wood on board the mystical plane. She recently expressed hope for other affected family members through Facebook and Twitter. "The glimmer of hope has become a definable ray. Hostages are far more valuable alive," she posted on a Facebook page campaign she made for her partner. The page is called "Finding Philip Wood."

Authorities also believe that someone may have been behind the shutting down of the messaging system of the missing Malaysia Airline Flight 370. Further investigations lead to the possibility that the person who may have been suddenly in control of the aircraft may have decided to go south, CBC states. Even Australian PM Tony Abbott has expressed their willingness to offer additional help in the search operations as he is to speak with the Malaysian authorities.

The growing search for the missing Boeing 777-200ER has expanded up to 11 other countries, and even as far as Kazakhstan according to CNN. So far, there are still a lot more of the questions than answers revealed about the missing aircraft. "I think they had an end game in mind from the very beginning," Jim Tilmon, an aviation analyst from CNN expressed.

The pilots of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 are also facing utmost scrutiny by the authorities as they also start searching for their houses to potentially gain some helpful inkling. A flight simulator was discovered in the captain's home, while they were also noted interviewing the engineers of the plane before the take off. However, such are still considered part of the usual normal procedure according to the transport minister.

"Police are still working on it... Nothing conclusive yet," a senior police official shared.

The missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 carried 227 passengers, with 159 of them Chinese.