Chrysler has issued two voluntary recalls -- one for the 2012-2013 Jeep Grand Cherokee and Dodge Durango, the other for the 2014 Fiat 500L. The recalls stem from two unrelated problems, and Chrysler knows of no accidents or injuries associated with either flaw.

According to a press release from Chrysler, the Grand Cherokee/Durango recall is meant to address "pedal feel" on the vehicles' brakes. The automaker was contacted by a parts supplier, which believed that one of its components might be interfering with Chrysler's Ready Alert Braking system. That system "primes brakes for optimal response when making a sudden stop".

Upon investigation, Chrysler found that brake fluid in the Grand Cherokee and Durango was, in fact, being restricted, which caused diminished brake pedal feel. However, the company points out that "Brake function was neither lost nor out of compliance with regulation" as a result of the problem.

The flaw affects some 25,250 vehicles -- 18,700 purchased in the U.S., 825 in Canada, 530 in Mexico, and the remaining 5,200 located in other countries.

Chrysler hasn't issued a timeline for fixing the problem, but says that it will let owners know when they can take their vehicles to Chrysler dealers for free repairs. If you own one of the affected vehicles and have additional questions, you're encouraged to contact Chrysler directly at 800-853-1403.

The Fiat 500L, on the other hand, is being recalled for a glitch in its transmission software. According to a press release:

Chrysler Group engineers launched an investigation after reviewing reports that some vehicles equipped with dual dry clutch automatic transmissions would not shift readily out of park and/or their transmissions did not receive, or were slow to receive, an intended gear selection.

The problem has been linked to a microcontroller associated with the transmission -- a component that Chrysler says might be "compromised" by extremes in temperature. That sounds like a mechanical problem, but the fix comes in the form of a software update (though Chrysler says that 200 of the recalled vehicles may require replacement of the shift-module to ensure compatibility with the new software).

All told, the Fiat recall affects around 19,500 vehicles, at least 20 percent of which are still on dealer lots. Approximately 18,100 of the recalled vehicles are located in the U.S., with the remaining 1,400 in Canada.

As with the Grand Cherokee and Durango recall, Chrysler hasn't indicated when it will begin notifying owners of the Fiat 500L recall. However, when it does, owners will be able to take their vehicles to Fiat dealers, who will fix them free of charge. For additional information, contact Chrysler at 800-853-1403.

Follow The Car Connection on Facebook, Twitter and Google+.