Just two weeks after the trouble-plagued Metro-North railroad said it had emphasized a "safety first" message with its workforce, a train early Monday killed an employee working on a heavily used stretch of tracks in Harlem.

The railroad said little about the death of James Romansoff, 58, who was part of a crew restoring power to a track that had been taken out of service for weekend maintenance work.

He was the second employee killed doing rail work in 10 months. Robert Luden died in West Haven last May when a trainee dispatcher mistakenly sent a train hurtling through a work zone.

The National Transportation Safety Board, which is already looking into a series of derailments and crashes at Metro-North, dispatched a team of investigators to determine what went wrong this time.

Metro-North said only that Romansoff was working on the four-track viaduct above Park Avenue when he was hit by a Poughkeepsie-bound train shortly before 1 a.m.

Romansoff's death comes after more than a year of calamities, mishaps, employee scandals, severe service disruptions and botched construction jobs at the nation's busiest commuter railroad. The latest accident drew new concern from political leaders who've called for stricter federal oversight of Metro-North.

"It is clear that the safety solutions Metro-North has voluntarily implemented are insufficient," Sens. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., and Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said in a statement Monday evening.

Romansoff was working on a stretch of the four-track viaduct that carries all Metro-North's Harlem, Hudson and New Haven line trains between the Bronx and Grand Central Terminal.

That stretch has heavy train traffic and a change in elevation, but the tracks run perfectly straight for more than 4 miles from Grand Central to 132nd Street before curving to meet a bridge above the Hudson River. Trains leaving Grand Central go north through a tunnel for about 50 blocks and emerge around 97th Street; the tracks gradually rise to become a viaduct.

Metro-North reported that the worker was struck on tracks crossing above 106th Street, or roughly nine blocks beyond the tunnel portal.

Metro-North did not say whether Romansoff's crew was using the new EEPS Enhanced Employee Protection System, which the railroad had recently predicted would become an industry standard for protecting track workers.

"This industry-leading system developed in-house significantly increases the safety of workers on the tracks," Metro-North said in a list of promised improvements delivered to Connecticut Gov. Dannel P. Malloy last week. The railroad had said the system would be completed by May 1.

In the past several weeks, the railroad has also stressed to state legislators that it has held "safety stand-downs" with hundreds of employees, and has begun an intensive review of its training and safety policies.

Joseph Giulietti, who took over as president in February, has said he'd restore a "safety first" attitude among employees and managers who'd let on-time performance become their first concern.