LONDON ¨C Bouygues and Altice have raised their offers in an escalating bidding war for SFR, the mobile phone unit of the French media conglomerate Vivendi.

Bouygues, the owner of Bouygues Telecom, France¡¯s third-largest mobile carrier, said on Thursday that it had offered 11.3 billion euros, or about $15.8 billion, for 52 percent of SFR, in a deal that would allow Vivendi to retain a 43 percent stake. A minority shareholder in Bouygues Telecom, JCDecaux, would hold the remaining shares of SFR.

The revised bid values SFR at nearly 20 billion, including cost savings, Bouygues said. The company had previously offered about 10.5 billion for a slightly smaller stake.

The bidding war pits Martin Bouygues, the billionaire who runs the diversified industrial group that bears his name, against the French entrepreneur Patrick Drahi, who since 2002 has built Altice into a global operation with cable and cellphone assets in Europe and the Caribbean.

Altice submitted its own sweetened offer for SFR late Wednesday, according to a person familiar with the discussions. The person, who wasn¡¯t authorized to speak publicly, declined to provide details on the revised offer.

The French newspaper Le Monde reported Thursday that Altice had increased the cash portion of its offer to 11.75 billion.

The potential sale of SFR is part of Vivendi¡¯s efforts to increase its capital reserves and expand its existing media assets, such as the pay-television provider Canal Plus. Vivendi had previously considered an initial public offering of SFR.

Altice had previously offered around $20 billion to buy SFR through a mixture of debt financing, equity and assets, according to people with direct knowledge of the bid.

Vivendi¡¯s board is expected to meet on Friday to consider the offers.

As part of its offer, Bouygues has said it would list the combined cellphone unit through an I.P.O. that would allow Vivendi to sell a further 15 percent of its stake in SFR.

¡°Bouygues is committed to facilitate the liquidity of Vivendi¡¯s interest in the new entity,¡± the company said.