At long last, the saga of the two men's suits retailers who just couldn't seem to get along has reached a conclusion: has entered a definitive deal to acquire rival retailer Jos. A. Bank.

Men's Wearhouse will acquire all outstanding shares of Jos. A. Bank stock for $65 per share in cash, bringing the deal's total value to $1.8 billion. After nearly six months of back and forth -- during which time saw Jos. A. Bank bidding for Men¡¯s Wearhouse and then in November, January and again in February found Men's Wearhouse bidding for Jos. A. Bank -- the two companies announced early Tuesday afternoon that the boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction.

Men's Wearhouse's $65-per-share offer represents a 56% premium over Jos. A. Bank's closing share price on October 8, 2013, the day prior to Jos. A. Bank's public proposal to acquire Men's Wearhouse. Though no rebranding will be required -- Jos. A. Bank's store banner will remain in place, the retailers said -- the companies said that Men's Wearhouse shareholders will benefit from approximately $100 to $150 million in synergies per year for three years, through cost savings measures that will come from the natural streamlining that occurs within the merger, like improving purchasing efficiencies and optimizing customer service and marketing practices.

In conjunction with this deal, Jos. A. Bank has terminated the agreement it struck in February to acquire Eddie Bauer's parent company, Everest Holdings LLC.

"We are pleased to have reached this agreement with Jos. A. Bank, which we believe will deliver substantial benefits to our respective shareholders, employees and customers," Doug Ewert, Men's Wearhouse president and CEO, said in a statement Tuesday. "Together, Men's Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank will have increased scale and breadth, and Jos. A. Bank's strong brand and complementary business model will broaden our customer reach. We expect the transaction will be accretive to Men's Wearhouse's earnings in the first full year."

Robert Wildrick, Jos. A. Bank chairman, added that the Jos. A. Bank board has been "rigorously" focused on a path for the company that maximizes value creation, a point that has been abundantly clear given the number of times it has denied previous Men's Wearhouse offers. "The transaction we are announcing today clearly reflects the success of our efforts, providing a substantial premium over any price at which our stock has ever traded, including a 56% premium since our interest in Men's Wearhouse became public last October, and allowing our shareholders to receive immediate consideration for their holdings," Wildrick said in a statement, before going on to add a sentiment that Men's Wearhouse has likely longed to hear: "We look forward to working together with Men's Wearhouse to ensure a smooth transition."

Pending the usual closing conditions -- including approval from the Federal Trade Commission -- the deal will close in the third quarter of 2014. The new, combined company will be the fourth largest men's apparel retailer in the U.S., with 1,700 stores, 23,000 employees and combined sales of approximately $3.5 billion.

Following the news of the definitive agreement, shares of Men's Wearhouse surged; the stock is currently trading around $58 per share, or a 6.3% gain. Jos. A. Bank stock also surged and was briefly halted a little after noon. The stock is currently trading at $64.25, or a 3.9% gain.