Moneycontrol Bureau



US stocks finished little changed on Wednesday, with the Nasdaq up for the first session in five, as investors grappled with the evolving situation in Ukraine but shrugged off concern over weakness in China's economy.



The EU agreed a framework for its first sanctions on Russia since the Cold War, a stronger response to the Ukraine crisis than many had expected and a mark of solidarity with Washington in the effort to make Moscow pay for seizing Crimea.



But the bigger concern right now is China. The economic slowdown in world¡¯s second largest economy is hammering prices of some raw materials, driving down industrial commodities from copper to iron ore and coal.



Copper has recovered marginally from 4 year low. After sliding to session lows of 6376.25$/ton, weakest level since July 2010, LME copper recovered to end at 6505. Three-month LME copper has shed more than 11% this year. 



Iron ore prices continue to trade around 18-month lows. Iron ore is down 22 percent so far in 2014 to USD 104.7/tonne raising comparisons to with the slump in 2012 to below 90, which shut down many miners and left producers rethinking expansion plans. 



In other commodities, Nymex held steady at around USD 98 a barrel in early Asian trade on Thursday, after plunging more than 2 percent in their biggest drop in two months overnight as investors turned their focus to the unfolding geopolitical crisis in Ukraine.



From precious metals space, gold was trading near its highest level in six months as investors sought to hedge their bets against geopolitical tensions in Ukraine and economic slowdown fears in China. 



Marc Faber, Editor & Publisher, The Gloom, Boom & Doom Report said: ¡°China has never defaulted. That is A) not entirely true. They have been bailed out several times. Banks and financial institutions and companies and I would say that the fact that they haven¡¯t had a major credit problem doesn¡¯t mean that they wont have in future.



I believe that the Chinese economic growth will slow down meaningfully. There is a credit problem. There is no question about it. To what extent it will create an implosion in the economy that we do not yet.¡±



And in key data to watch out for in US today, weekly jobless claims are seen rising to 330,000. Meanwhile, retail sales could come in higher at 0.2 percent. Also watch out for import and export prices.