Mortgage rates on ARMs leveled off at Chase (NYSE:JPM) on Wednesday, March 12, erasing those upticks we spotted a day earlier. Under the bank¡¯s home loan program, the starting rate ticked down on the 7/1 adjustable rate mortgage. This flexible loan is currently published at a rate of 3.375%. The 5/1 ARM improved as well, as the interest rate was reduced to 3.125% from the previous 3.250% that it held. Among the more popular fixed rate conventional loans, Chase is offering the 30-year FRM for as low as 4.375%. The shorter-term, 15-year home loan carries 3.500% interest cost.

Moving on to the lender¡¯s mortgage refinancing options, the standard 30-year fixed loan is listed at a rate of 4.500%, unchanged compared to yesterday¡¯s rate quote. Also holding steady is the 15-year refinance loan, as it¡¯s available today at a rate of 3.500%. As far as flexible home refinance loans are concerned, the 7/1 adjustable rate loan is coming out at a rate of 3.500% at this lender. The 5/1 ARM also looks attractive, as it¡¯s published at a rate of 3.250% on Wednesday. Detailed information on today¡¯s mortgage interest rates, discount points and annual percentage rates can be found below.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Chase offers excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing mortgage, may find some ideal loan solutions at this lender.

It should be noted, that the current mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

As far as U.S. mortgage applications are concerned, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) announced the results of its latest weekly mortgage survey earlier on Wednesday. According to the MBA¡¯s data, mortgage application activity in the U.S. tumbled 2.1% in the week ended March 7. Less Americans decided to file applications for mortgage refinancing, as the Refinance Index fell 3% in the said period. With regards to home purchase applications, the Purchase Index ticked down 1%. The refinance share of total mortgage applications sank to 57%, the MBA reported.

In other news, national average mortgage rates fell last week, according to Virgina-based mortgage finance company, Freddie Mac. The 30-year fixed mortgage averaged a rate of 4.28% last week, down by 9 basis points compared to the previous 4.37% that it held in the prior week. The 15-year FRM averaged 3.32% last week, Freddie Mac said on Thursday.

Further details on Chase¡¯s current mortgage interest rates, as well as information on loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions can be found on the financial institution¡¯s website.