ECB member Noyer is 'very open to all kinds of tools'

European Central Bank (ECB) Governing Council member Christian Noyer stated on Monday that he was personally very open to all kinds of tools for monetary easing.



In an interview for Bloomberg Television, Noyer said the lack of action at last week's ECB policy meeting was unrelated to the 'controversy' of available tools.



In particular, Noyer said he would be in favour of suspending the sterlisation of ECB bond purchases under the Securities Market Programme (SMP).



"I fully agree with [Bundesbank President] Jens Weidmann that the suspension of sterilisation is one of the tools we may use if needed," he said. 



At the ECB's press conference last Thursday, President Draghi admitted that the suspension of SMP sterilisation was one of the instruments under consideration but the board "didn't see any development [...] that would justify the use of this instrument". Draghi argued that the measure's benefits would be relatively limited due to the short maturity of SMP bonds.



What makes such a move controversial would be that it marks a philosophical shift at the ECB and would show that the central bank is ready to increase the money supply and begin the type of asset purchases akin to debt monetisation and considered illegal under EU treaties, but already carried out by other central banks such as the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan.



Noyer also said that he was "not very happy" about the euro's appreciation and while a strong euro creates unwarranted downward pressure on the economy and inflation he said that the current outlook is in line with the ECB's baseline scenario.



Draghi had estimated that the rise in the euro's exchange rate has impacted inflation by approximately 0.4 percentage points.



"Low inflation is not deflation", Noyer told a panel discussion at the Bank of France but warned that the situation calls for a very careful assessment in the balance of risks.



In regards to last week's decision, Noyer told Bloomberg Television that "that the conditions were exactly as we wanted them to be" and that the current "extreme degree of accommodation" is appropriate.



JP