The Chinese central bank¡¯s move to lose control over the yuan is indicating that the depreciation pressures have now relaxed. 



The People¡¯s Bank of China (PBoC) has reduced the effect of the ¡®counter-cyclical factor¡¯ mechanism introduced by the central bank last May, to diminish the impact of market forces on the yuan¡¯s reference point. 



The mechanism was used in a formula to determine the mid-point reference rate for the yuan¡¯s exchange rate against the US dollar daily. 



Chi Lo, senior economist for Greater China at BNP Paribas Asset Management, told Citywire Asia that the mechanism was installed at a time of extreme negative renminbi sentiment, which triggered massive capital outflows.



¡®It was arguably an unconventional policy tool for unconventional time.¡¯



Lo said he now sees the decrease of the ¡®counter-cyclical factor¡¯ effect as part of the Chinese government¡¯s policy normalisation, not a policy shift. 



¡®The mechanism was installed at a time of extreme negative renminbi sentiment which triggering massive capital outflows. It was arguably an unconventional policy tool for unconventional time.



¡®Now the Renminbi foreign exchange market is back to conventional time with balanced flows, the PBoC is exiting its unconventional policy, like the US Federal Reserve exiting quantitative easing, and going back to its conventional foreign exchange (FX) liberation programme,¡¯ he added.



The Chinese government¡¯s renminbi fixing includes three parts ¨C the ¡®counter-cyclical factor¡¯; the changes in the trade-weighted basket of currencies and the previous day¡¯s spot CNY ¨C USD closing rate. 



According to Lo, capital flow dynamics are favouring the renminbi¡¯s strength, not weakness. And so, removing the ¡®counter cyclical factor¡¯ distortion will not necessarily lead to its weakness. 



If anything, the renminbi may even strengthen further from last year¡¯s level under more flexibility without the constraint of the ¡®counter-cyclical factor¡¯.



¡®The outlook for a still balanced flow environment looks likely to continue on the back of moderate gross domestic product - growth, improving external environment and improving renminbi sentiment,¡¯ he said.



¡®The most important message that the government wants to convey from this move is that it still wants to control the yuan¡¯s liberalisation process and it can do so by using various creative policy tools at different periods of time. 



¡®The PBoC now sees the CCF outlive its usefulness.¡¯