Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba has confirmed it plans to list in the United States after ruling out Hong Kong and London.

"Alibaba Group has decided to commence the process of an initial public offering in the United States," the company said in a statement.

"This will make us a more global company and enhance the company's transparency, as well as allow the company to continue to pursue our long-term vision and ideals."

Analysts say the listing is expected to raise about $US10 billion, which would make it the technology industry's largest initial public offering (IPO) since Facebook's in 2012.

Alibaba is the world's largest online retailer and had been in negotiations with the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

But talks broke down last year, in part because the city's listing rules prevented Alibaba founder Jack Ma and senior management retaining some control over the board of directors.

Alibaba wanted an alternative class share structure to give selected minority shareholders extra control over the board, but the Hong Kong bourse refused to change its rules.

"We respect the viewpoints and policies of Hong Kong and will continue to pay close attention to, and support the process of innovation and development of, Hong Kong," Alibaba's statement said.

"Should circumstances permit in the future, we will be constructive toward extending our public status in the China capital market in order to share our growth with the people of China."

Reports say Alibaba could launch its IPO as soon as April, which could allow trading to begin by the third quarter.

Alibaba operates China's most popular e-shopping platform, Taobao, which has more than 90 per cent of the online market for consumer-to-consumer transactions.

Taobao has more than 800 million product listings and over 500 million users.

But data shows Alibaba's dominance of online retail in China is facing its biggest-ever challenge.

Market researcher Euromonitor says Alibaba lost market share last year while its nearest rivals all grew.

It's linked the country's most popular messaging app, WeChat, with the number two e-commerce player, JD.com.

Euromonitor says an array of smaller rivals is also clawing away at Alibaba's lead.

The research firm estimates China's internet retail market will triple its 2012 value by 2018 to more than $300 billion.