Ben Broadbent, a former Goldman Sachs economist and Treasury adviser, has been appointed as the Bank of England's deputy governor for monetary policy, as the Treasury and the Bank selected a woman to serve on the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) for the first time in four years. Mr Broadbent, who joined the MPC as an external member in 2011, will replace Charlie Bean, who retires at the end of June after 14 years at the Bank. In a major shake-up of the MPC, the Treasury and Bank also announced the appointment of Nemat Shafik, who will serve in the newly created role of deputy governor responsible for markets and banking. She joins on August 1 and will replace Paul Fisher on the MPC, who will remain at the Bank. Egyptian-born Ms Shafik - known by her nickname Minouche - has served as a deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) since April 2011 - where she oversees work on countries in Europe and the Middle East.

The new post has been created to ¡°conduct a root-and-branch review of how [the Bank] conducts market intelligence,¡± Mark Carney, the Governor, told MPs last week. Ms Shafik also joins at a difficult time for the Bank, which this month suspended one of its employees amid allegations that the central bank was involved in the rigging of the foreign exchange market .

Ms Shafik said she was "excited to be joining the Bank at such a critical time of institutional change".

Andy Haldane, currently the Bank¡¯s executive director for financial stability, will become chief economist and executive director for monetary analysis - a post currently held by Spencer Dale, and join the MPC.

Mr Dale will move into the role of executive director for financial stability strategy and risk, and leave the MPC to join the Financial Policy Committee, which is responsible for ensuring financial stability. Both appointments will come into effect on June 1.

Economists said the changes added a "degree of raised uncertainty" as to the direction of debate on the MPC.

"In Paul Fisher¡¯s departure the MPC is clearly losing a ¡®dove¡¯. But in Dale¡¯s move off the MPC it is also losing a ¡®hawk¡¯," said David Tinsley, chief UK economist at BNP Paribas.

"At the same time Nemat Shafik¡¯s views will be an unknown quantity for a while (she may hug the consensus until she feels more up to speed with the UK conjuncture). Andy Haldane has a reputation as a ¡®free thinker¡¯. How this translates into his views on monetary policy are not clear."

Anthony Habgood, the chairman of Whitbread, was also named head of the court of the Bank of England, which is responsible for managing the Bank's affairs.

Commenting on the appointments of Ms Shafik, Mr Broadbent and Mr Habgood, George Osborne, the Chancellor, said: ¡°I am delighted to announce the appointment of three such highly qualified and experienced people to join the Bank¡¯s already excellent executive team. Their impressive experience of business, economics and international finance will strengthen and diversify the Bank¡¯s top team and enable them to continue to face Britain¡¯s ongoing economic challenges from a position of strength¡±.

Ms Shafik is the first woman to serve on the MPC since Kate Barker, who was a member of the committee between 2001 and 2010. She will be the Bank's fourth deputy governor - a record for the Bank - which managed with just one between 1694 and 1998.

Since joining the MPC, Mr Broadbent has voted to keep interest rates on hold at 0.5pc and its stock of asset purchases at 375bn in all of his 33 meetings. He also voted in favour of the Bank's forward guidance policy.

¡°I am delighted that individuals of the calibre of Ben Broadbent, Minouche Shafik and Anthony Habgood will be joining the Bank¡¯s leadership group," said Mr Carney.

"With a diverse combination of skills and experience, these appointments result in a well-rounded senior management team at the Bank ¨C one that will set the direction for an ambitious agenda of transformation for the institution and enable it to meet the challenges and opportunities it faces in maintaining monetary and financial stability.¡±

Christine Lagarde, managing director of the IMF, said Ms Shafik had a "broad command of policy issues" and "superb leadership and communications skills.

¡°I have highly valued Minouche¡¯s contribution as part of the senior team and I have greatly appreciated her advice, candour, and loyalty. She is a dear colleague and, I am proud to say, a dear friend as well ... Minouche will be missed," she said.