has attracted a great deal of interest on Wall Street in the last year on the long and the short side of the market. Now, the company is the target of a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), according to a statement issued by the company:

"Herbalife welcomes the inquiry given the tremendous amount of misinformation in the marketplace, and will cooperate fully with the FTC. We are confident that Herbalife is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Herbalife is a financially strong and successful company, having created meaningful value for shareholders, significant opportunities for distributors and positively impacted the lives and health of its consumers for over 34 years. "

Investors on the short side of the market have every reason to celebrate, as the stock dropped following the company statement. But investors on the long side of the market have every reason to be concerned--though the company has warned about possible risks, including ¡°the outcome of inquiries from regulatory authorities.¡±

At stake is Herbalife¡¯s business model¡ªa multilevel marketing organization whereby individual customer-distributors enlist other customer-distributors to work for them, in a pyramid style organization.

One of the things that some critics find at fault with in this model is that while a very few people make it to the top of the pyramid and reap off a huge pay-off, the vast majority loses money.

But isn¡¯t this the case with most business ventures?

I do not believe the problem is with the very nature of a multi-level marketing network--but whether those who join it understand that nature. It's the difference between participating in the network as a customer, on the one hand, and buying products at inflated price (to pay for the commissions of the people who join the network earlier); and on the other hand, participating as an entrepreneur, developing a business that directly or indirectly markets the network products.

Hopefully the FTC investigation will come up with a ruling to clarify this confusion.