By Robert Cyran

 The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.

The maker of the popular game ¡°Candy Crush Saga¡± has picked $7.6 billion out of the thin air for its initial public offering. King Digital Entertainment uses creative metrics to justify its whopping valuation. But there¡¯s no way to calculate what an enterprise is worth when its profit can skyrocket 70-fold one year and could collapse the next. Rival Zynga¡¯s IPO flub serves as an apposite warning.

King¡¯s performance in 2013 was certainly impressive. Revenue climbed more than 11-fold, which means the company enjoyed astounding operating leverage. Moreover, the firm throws off boatloads of cash ¨C $580 million from operations last year. Its backers have only had to put in $9 million of capital to date. No wonder they now fancy taking the company public.

The trouble is, the methods they¡¯re using to value the company aren¡¯t particularly helpful. Metrics like monthly gross average bookings per paying user (MGABPPU) and gross average booking per user (GABPU) shed little if any light for prospective investors.

Social gaming as a business is driven by hit products. Zynga¡¯s travails show how hard it is to stay on top. Its shares have lost about half their value since their opening-day high in 2011 as the popularity of games like ¡°FarmVille¡± faded. Heavy spending to buy rivals hasn¡¯t worked either. Zynga spent $200 million on OMGPop and closed the business about a year later.

Sure, King looks cheaper ¨C at the top of the range it would be worth about four times last year¡¯s revenue, compared with five times for Zynga. But such comparisons may not be solid. ¡°Candy Crush Saga¡± generated close to 80 percent of King¡¯s bookings in the fourth quarter. There are already signs its peak may have passed. Instead of its customary explosive growth, fourth-quarter revenue was 3 percent lower than the third quarter. King needs a new hit, if not several, soon.

The company makes much of its ¡°unique, repeatable, scalable¡± system of developing and distributing new games. There¡¯s some truth to that ¨C the company has been cash flow positive for nine years. So it can probably trundle along for a while even if it can¡¯t develop a new hit when its current one fades. That¡¯s hardly a basis for such a lofty IPO valuation.