Chiquita bananas are grown in the banana belt. They¡¯re shipped to the temperate belt. And the taxes on this enterprise will be paid in ¨C Ireland?

Chiquita Brands International. Inc. , with headquarters in Charlotte, N.C., is already one of the world¡¯s top banana distributors. It announced Monday it is buying Irish-based Fyffes, another global kingpin in the fruit distribution business, in a $1.07 billion, all-stock deal. The deal creates the world¡¯s biggest banana business, with sales of about $4.6 billion.

By joining forces, the combined ChiquitaFyffes claims it will knock down operating costs by about $40 million a year.

But the move also knocks down Chiquita¡¯s taxes, since it¡¯s hitching itself to a company domiciled in Dublin.

Ireland isn¡¯t exactly a tax shelter, but it¡¯s close. Companies based there pay a 12.5% corporate tax rate compared with the (official) rate of up to 35% in the United States.

Several U.S. companies have already figured out the Ireland advantage. Drug maker Perrigo offshored itself to Ireland last year when it bought its Irish rival Elan Corp. (ELN). Industrial parts manufacturer Eaton Corp. is another one. It made the move in 2012 when it bought Ireland¡¯s Cooper Industries Plc. It¡¯s also why Apple Inc. maintains a network of unlimited Irish entities to avoid higher corporate taxes on billions of dollars of revenue it earns abroad. (Read more about it in this article in the Irish Times.)

In 2012, Chiquita¡¯s income taxes resulted in a net expense of $105 million, reversing a net tax benefit the year before of $82 million. Much of the reversal had to do with establishing valuation allowances against U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. It¡¯s complicated stuff. But the company was clearly not pleased with the outcome, and said so in its annual report. So moving its corporate accounts to Ireland might actually simplify the taxation process as well as lighten the burden.

With operations in over 70 countries, Chiquita is no stranger to doing business abroad. The only problem it might have with its new Dublin address is convincing international regulators that the deal with Fyffes doesn¡¯t put too many of the world¡¯s bananas in the hands of one company.