NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- American Eagle Outfitters (AEO) is scheduled to announce its earnings results for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 before the market open on Wednesday morning.

Analysts have estimated for a year-over-year increase in earnings per share and revenue for the clothing retailer's second quarter.

American Eagle Outfitters is expected to report earnings of 14 cents per share on revenue of $769.6 million, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.

The company posted adjusted earnings of 3 cents per diluted share on revenue of $710.6 million for the quarter ended August 2, 2014.

The Pittsburg-based company plans to close 65 to 75 stores during fiscal 2015, while opening up to 22 new locations.

American Eagle Outfitters stock is declining by 1.09% to $18.15 on heavy trading volume on Tuesday afternoon.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates AMERN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B-. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate AMERN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (AEO) a BUY. This is driven by multiple strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its impressive record of earnings per share growth, compelling growth in net income, revenue growth, expanding profit margins and solid stock price performance. We feel its strengths outweigh the fact that the company shows weak operating cash flow."

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows:
 AMERN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC reported significant earnings per share improvement in the most recent quarter compared to the same quarter a year ago. The company has demonstrated a pattern of positive earnings per share growth over the past year. We feel that this trend should continue. During the past fiscal year, AMERN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC increased its bottom line by earning $0.46 versus $0.42 in the prior year. This year, the market expects an improvement in earnings ($0.97 versus $0.46).
 The net income growth from the same quarter one year ago has significantly exceeded that of the S&P 500 and the Specialty Retail industry. The net income increased by 651.5% when compared to the same quarter one year prior, rising from $3.87 million to $29.06 million.
 Despite its growing revenue, the company underperformed as compared with the industry average of 8.7%. Since the same quarter one year prior, revenues slightly increased by 8.3%. Growth in the company's revenue appears to have helped boost the earnings per share.
 37.48% is the gross profit margin for AMERN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC which we consider to be strong. It has increased from the same quarter the previous year. Regardless of the strong results of the gross profit margin, the net profit margin of 4.15% trails the industry average.
 Powered by its strong earnings growth of 650.00% and other important driving factors, this stock has surged by 63.04% over the past year, outperforming the rise in the S&P 500 Index during the same period. We feel that the stock's sharp appreciation over the last year has driven it to a price level which is now somewhat expensive compared to the rest of its industry. The other strengths this company shows, however, justify the higher price levels.
 You can view the full analysis from the report here: AEO Ratings Report