Transcript of Fyffes and Chiquita to create biggest banana firm

Fyffes and Chiquita to create biggest banana firm

ANEELA SOPHIA IQBAL

Company Information

Irish fruit firm Fyffes and US rival Chiquita are to merge to create the world's largest banana company, worth about $1bn (597m). This firm will be listed in New York. 

The global banana market, worth $7 billion, is currently controlled by four multinationals, according to the United Nations: Chiquita, Fresh Del Monte, Hawaii-founded Dole Food Company and Fyffes. The new firm, named ChiquitaFyffes, is expected to sell about 160 million boxes of bananas annually, more than any rival.

This is a milestone transaction for Chiquita and Fyffes that brings together the best of both companies," said Chiquita boss Ed Lonergan.



My thoughts about this topic

I think it is really good thing that 2 companies are coming together because it can improve their positions and by this they can make more profit.

Hightlight + use the heading of the report 

Fyffes and Chiquita to create biggest banana firm

Out line 10 key facts about this topic

1). Irish fruit firm Fyffes and US rival Chiquita are to merge to create the world's largest banana company.

2). Its worth about $1bn (597m).

3). The new firm, named ChiquitaFyffes

4). The new firm, named ChiquitaFyffes, is expected to sell about 160 million boxes of bananas annually, more than any rival.

5). It will be listed in New York.

6). The tie-up came as Fyffes revealed that its profit before tax for 2013 rose 9.8% to 28.7m euros (23.8m).

7). It said results in its banana division were "broadly satisfactory", although profits in that division were slightly down compared with 2012's strong performance

8). Chiquita, Dole Food Company, Fresh Del Monte and Fyffes are on a global scale are not too far away from each other.

9). In the merger, shareholders will receive shares in each firm, with Fyffes shareholders owning about 49.3% of the combined company.

10). The deal is expected to go through this year, but will be subject to review by competition authorities.

Why are these changes happening?

Because Mr Lonergan said the deal would help it to save costs and expand the areas it served. Companies can make more profit.

It said results in its banana division were "broadly satisfactory", although profits in that division were slightly down compared with 2012's strong performance.

What are the major issues?

Where do you think the business will be in a few years?

I think companies will improve their positions in next few years and they will make more profit because they are expected to sell about 160 million boxes of bananas annually, more than any rival.

Whats the overall conclusion of the newspaper?

It said results in its banana division were "broadly satisfactory", although profits in that division were slightly down compared with 2012's strong performance.

I think the companies merging will change the banana market because I do not think the other companies will be able to compete with Fyffe and Chiquita. This may help keep the price down within the supermarket because they can order a high volume of bananas and keep the retail price down.