Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley have begun working on the listing of Alibaba Group under the code name ¡°Project Avatar¡±, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.

One of the people said the work on the IPO for the Chinese e-commerce company was ¡°not advanced¡± and ¡°preliminary stuff¡±, including establishing the ideal timing for the listing to take place and the appropriate listing venue.

However, they acknowledged that the two banks were best positioned to win the official IPO mandate when that was confirmed. No banks had been officially mandated on the deal yet, the people said.

The two banks have worked closely with the company over several years.

Alibaba is expected to raise around US$15bn in New York in the highest-profile internet IPO since Facebook¡¯s US$16bn listing in 2012.

Bloomberg reported today that Alibaba was aiming to go public in the US as soon as April, citing people familiar with the matter, although IFR¡¯s sources suggested that a decision on timing had not yet been taken.

The company had yet to rule out formally a listing in Hong Kong, although executive vice-chairman Joe Tsai told Reuters on Wednesday the company would ¡°never¡± change its partnership shareholding structure in order to list in Hong Kong.

A deal size of around US$15bn is expected to value the firm at US$80bn¨C$100bn.

Part of the reason for Alibaba¡¯s favouring a listing in the US, rather than Hong Kong, is its partnership structure that allows founder Jack Ma to retain control of the firm despite limited equity ownership.

Ma and his top executives own only about 10% of the firm. US internet firm Yahoo and Japan¡¯s SoftBank own 24% and 37%, respectively. There are currently 28 partners in the company.

The US market allows dual-class share structures, but does not have any exact precedent for the partnership structure of Alibaba.

Alibaba employs more than 20,000 people in over 70 offices in Greater China, Singapore, India, the UK and US. The e-commerce group is so large that it reorganised into 25 business units last year to allow it to adapt to changes quicker.