EBay has come out swinging against activist investor Carl Icahn.

The San Jose e-tailer on Monday officially rejected Icahn¡¯s proposed two board nominees. Icahn, who holds a 2.2 percent stake in eBay, wants the company to spin off PayPal, its electronic payments division. He wanted two of his employees on the eBay board to promote that agenda.

¡°Neither nominee has relevant experience or expertise,¡± said Richard Schlosberg, chairman of eBay¡¯s corporate governance and nominating committee.

Instead, eBay backs the re-election of four existing board members: President and CEO John Donahoe; Fred Anderson, co-founder and managing director of Elevation Partners; Edward Barnholt, former CEO of Agilent Technologies; and Scott Cook, co-founder and chairman of Intuit.

Talking smack, the company and the pugnacious billionaire issued dueling press releases notable for their frankness.

In a lengthy screed on his website, ShareholdersSquareTable, Icahn accused eBay CEO John Donohoe of ¡°inexcusable incompetence (that) cost eBay stockholders over $4 billion¡± for selling Skype too soon and too cheaply. He also attacked eBay board member Marc Andreessen, whose investor group bought Skype and then flipped it to Microsoft at a $4 billion premium. Previously, he¡¯d also taken aim at Intuit¡¯s Cook,

Under eBay¡¯s tender ministrations, PayPal may ¡°wither,¡± Icahn wrote. ¡° I believe that if it is left as a division of eBay, PayPal may well go the way of other former technology greats such as Blackberry, Dell, Eastman Kodak, Polaroid, Nintendo, Xerox, Sony, Palm, and AOL ,¡± he wrote.

For its part, Ebay said Icahn is dabbling in ¡°false and misleading¡± statements.

¡°New eBay shareholder Carl Icahn has cherry-picked old news clips and anecdotes out of context to attack the integrity of two of the most respected, accomplished and value-driven technology leaders in Silicon Valley,¡± it said, referring to Andreessen and Cook. ¡°And eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe is widely respected for his turnaround of eBay and leadership of the company over the past six years.¡±

Icahn¡¯s 2.2 percent eBay stake isn¡¯t actually enough for him to actually wrest much control. So what¡¯s his real agenda?

As Icahn biographer Mark Stevens last week told Chronicle business editor and columnist Tom Lee: ¡±It¡¯s all a game to him. He¡¯s a master chess player. The only person who knows what Carl Icahn really wants is Carl Icahn.¡±