Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group has announced that it is planning a US listing after a months-long tug of war battle between New York and Hong Kong for what could be one of the world¡¯s highest initial public offerings.

The flotation is expected to generate proceeds in excess of $15bn (9bn), ranking the company¡¯s listing alongside record-breaking IPOs such as Visa, which raised $17.9bn (10.8bn) in 2008, and Facebook, which took $16bn (9.6bn) in 2012.

Alibaba, the world¡¯s largest online retailer with over 500 million customers, did not release details of the size or date of the listing, but sources said that it will be in the second half of the year.

The company is in talks with six banks ¨C Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs Group, J.P. Morgan, and Morgan Stanley ¨C for lead underwriting roles, which would yield an estimated $260m (156m) in fees, a source close to the situation said.

Alibaba said that listing in the US would make it ¡°a more global company and enhance the company¡¯s transparency.¡±

The announcement ends months of speculation over where the Hangzhou-based group, which is expected to reach a value of $200bn (120bn) by the end of this year, would hold its IPO.

In September last year, Alibaba indicated that it favoured New York after Hong Kong regulators balked at its proposed structure, which allows a group of partners to nominate the majority of the board of directors.

At the time, Joe Tsai, executive vice chairman, said: ¡°We understand Hong Kong may not want to change its tradition for one company, but we firmly believe that Hong Kong must consider what is needed in order to adapt to future trends and changes.

¡°The question Hong Kong must address is whether it is ready to look forward as the rest of the world passes it by.¡±

Last week, the Financial Times reported that Alibaba, which made a net profit of $801m (482m) in Q3 last year, had stopped engaging with Hong Kong and was ¡°95pc¡± certain to choose New York for its initial public offering.

In a statement, the company said that it would also consider listing on China¡¯s capital market in future to share its growth with local investors.

The statement continued: ¡°We wish to thank those in Hong Kong who have supported Alibaba Group. We respect the viewpoints and policies of Hong Kong and will continue to pay close attention to and support the process of innovation and development of Hong Kong.¡±

The announcement comes two days after Weibo, China¡¯s answer to Twitter, announced plans for a $500m (301m) listing in the US.