American Airlines Group Inc (NASDAQ:AAL) and JetBlue Airways Corporation (NASDAQ:JBLU) ended a partnership agreement that allowed passengers to purchase connections from each other¡¯s carrier.

Based on the statement of the American Airlines Group Inc (NASDAQ:AAL), its customers will no longer earn miles or points when travelling on eligible routes operated by JetBlue Airways Corporation (NASDAQ:JBLU) and vice versa effective April 1.

¡°All American AAdvantage miles or JetBlue TrueBlue points already accrued through this partnership will be credited to customers¡¯ accounts and are not affected,¡± according to the statement. The two the airlines are working together to make sure that the change will have little impact on travelers.

In separate announcement, American Airlines Group Inc (NASDAQ:AAL) announced that its total revenue passenger miles (RPMs) increased 0.5% to $15.1 billion in February.

According to the airline¡¯s operators, its total capacity available seat miles (ASMs) increased 0.8% to 19.2 billion and its total passenger load factor was 78.4% for the month.

American Airlines Group Inc (NASDAQ:AAL) said severe weather conditions significantly affected its operations in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, New York, Philadelphia, and Washington D.C. in February. During the month, the airlines operator cancelled 14,000 flights, an increase of 149% compared last year.

During the first two months of 2014, American Airlines Group Inc (NASDAQ:AAL) cancelled around 28,000 flights, up by 164%.

The company expects to deliver strong unit revenue despite the weather-related challenges, and estimated that its 2014 PRASM for the first quarter will be approximately around 2% to 4% compared in the previous quarter a year earlier.

American Airlines Group Inc (NASDAQ:AAL) is the holding company for American Airlines and US Airways. The American Airlines AAdvantage and US Airways Dividend Miles Programs allow its members to earn and redeem miles for travel and everyday purchases. Members can also use their points to upgrade flights, vacation packages, car rentals, hotel accommodation, and other retail products.