J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) has released optimistic guidance for 2014, but not everyone thinks that the retailer¡¯s gross margin targets are realistic, and it may have to make painful cutbacks if it¡¯s going to keep liquidity flat for 2014.

At a minimum, J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) needs to cover $380 million in interest expenses and $250 million in capex, a total of $630 million, if it¡¯s going to break even on free cash flow this year, but Citi analysts Jenna Giannelli and Lauren Smith say that would require gross margins of 38% or better, compared to less than 30% last year, in addition to hitting same-store sales growth targets to cover those costs solely with EBITDA.

SG&A, capex costs are already at recent lows

That¡¯s not impossible, but it means planning for a banner year instead of gradual improvement (let alone more setbacks). The other option would be to make additional cuts to selling, general, and admin expenses (SG&A) or to capex, but both figures are already quite low.

¡°We are concerned that any further SG&A cuts could become detrimental to the business,¡± write Giannelli and Smith. ¡°We acknowledge and commend the efforts to cut nearly $1bn in costs in a short time frame, but worry for the ability to keep marketing plentiful and fresh and in store customer experience/satisfaction high.¡±

SG&A is up as a percentage of sales, 34% in 2013 compared to its own 27% average, but has been falling steadily on a per-store basis for the last decade, meaning that it is deploying its SG&A expenses more widely and getting worse results back. J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) will close 33 underperforming stores by this May to help alleviate the problem, but it could still be difficult to take SG&A much lower.

Similarly, J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) is already forecasting its lowest level of capex per store since 2001. The current low water mark of $290,000 per store corresponds to $310 million in capex, but J.C. Penney has forecast just $250 million. It¡¯s already well below its long-term average, $580,000 per store, and cutting any more threatens to undermine J.C. Penney¡¯s efforts.

J.C. Penney should be safe for the next few years

Giannelli and Smith don¡¯t think that J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) is in any immediate danger, and they increase their rating on the company¡¯s 2015 and 2016 maturities from Sell to Neutral because of improved liquidity, but they remain pessimistic in the long-term rating any maturities from 2017 as Sell and rating J.C. Penney stock as Underweight.