Under Chase¡¯s (NYSE:JPM) home loan program, certain mortgages are now published at higher interest rates. Among the loan packages, which bear higher rates today, we can mention the 7/1 adjustable rate mortgage (ARM). This type of mortgage loan is currently offered by Chase at a rate of 3.500%, an uptick of 0.125% compared to yesterday¡¯s rate quote (3.375%). The 5-year ARM is on the books at 3.250%, climbing from the former 3.125% that it had before. Contrary to ARMs, fixed rate conventional home loans haven¡¯t seen any changes on Tuesday. Borrowers, who are intending to secure the 30-year FRM, can expect to pay 4.375% in interest. The 15-year fixed home loan is listed at a rate of 3.500%.

Turning focus to mortgage loans, which can be used for refinancing, this major U.S. lender advertises the standard 30-year loan at a rate of 4.500% on Tuesday, the same interest rate it¡¯s been carrying since the beginning of the week. The same can be said about the 15-year refinance loan, as it remained unchanged at 3.500%. No changes were made to ARMs either, with the 7/1 adjustable rate loan coming out at 3.500%. Another flexible loan package, which can be used for home0 refinancing is the 5/1 ARM. On Tuesday, this type of mortgage is up for grabs at a rate of 3.250%. More details on today¡¯s home purchase and refinance loan options can be found below.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Chase offers excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some suitable mortgage options at this bank.

It should be noted, that the current mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

As far as U.S. mortgage applications are concerned, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) announced the results of its latest weekly mortgage survey last week. According to the MBA¡¯s data, mortgage application activity in the U.S. improved 9.4% in the week ended February 28. More Americans decided to file applications for mortgage refinancing, as the Refinance Index rose 10% in the said period. With regards to home purchase applications, the Purchase Index edged up 9%. The refinance share of total mortgage applications decreased to 57.7%, the MBA reported.

In other news, national average mortgage rates fell last week, according to Virgina-based mortgage finance company, Freddie Mac. The 30-year fixed mortgage averaged a rate of 4.28% last week, down by 9 basis points compared to the previous 4.37% that it held in the prior week. The 15-year FRM averaged 3.32% last week, Freddie Mac said on Thursday.

Further details on Chase¡¯s current mortgage interest rates, as well as information on loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions can be found on the lender¡¯s website.