After months of speculation, the board of directors of The Hertz Corp., Naples, Fla., approved plans on March 18 to separate into two independent publicly traded companies, including ¡°Hertz¡± comprised of the Hertz, Dollar, Thrifty and Firefly rental car businesses as well as Donlen, a provider of fleet leasing and management services; and ¡°HERC,¡± the Hertz Equipment Rental Corp.

The separation is planned to be in the form of a tax-free spin-off to Hertz shareholders. Hertz initially submitted an application to the IRS in August 2013 and recently received a Private Letter Ruling, paving the way for the company to move forward with the plan to separate the businesses in a tax-efficient manner. Hertz expects the separation of HERC to close by early 2015.

Hertz said it will receive net cash proceeds from the HERC spin-off of approximately $2.5 billion that will be used to pay down Hertz debt and support a newly approved $1 billion share repurchase program. Under the new share repurchase program, the majority of the shares are likely to be purchased following the HERC separation, dependent on market conditions.

¡°The actions will create separate companies, which we expect to benefit from improved financial profiles that include increased earnings stability and higher returns on capital,¡± said Mark Frissora, chairman and CEO of The Hertz Corp.

¡°Our rental car and equipment rental businesses are leaders in their respective markets with valuable assets and tremendous long-term potential. Through unbundling these undervalued assets, we unleash current and future shareholder value. In fact, we believe there is a potential for multiple expansion even if both businesses only trade in line with their peers,¡±

 Frissora said.

¡°Additionally, the separation will help each business focus on its strategic and operational performance. With respect to capital allocation, our new leverage ratios may allow for incremental return of capital to our shareholders given the current credit environment,¡± he said.

The Hertz board said it believes the planned separation of the equipment rental business from the car rental business would, among other things:
 Create a stronger growth profile and more competitive position for each company with enhanced management focus, resources and processes that are more directly aligned with each business¡¯s unique strategic priorities.
 Optimize the companies¡¯ capital structures based on the objectives of each independent company.
 Allow each business to attract and retain personnel by offering equity-linked compensation.
 Create a more targeted investment opportunity with multiples and trading valuations that more accurately reflect the strengths and opportunities of each business.

Following the separation, Hertz will have about 11,555 car rental locations throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand. The rental car and fleet leasing business had annual revenues of $9.23 billion in 2013.

At the same time, HERC will remain one of the largest diversified equipment rental businesses in the world with an estimated 335 branches in the United States, Canada, France, Spain, China and Saudi Arabia, as well as through international franchisees.

HERC rents a range of equipment, including aerial manlifts, air compressors and tools, earthmoving equipment and power generators, forklifts and material handling, pumps, and trucks and trailers. HERC also derives revenues from the sale of new and used equipment and consumables as well as through its Hertz Entertainment Services division, which rents lighting and related aerial products used primarily in the U.S. entertainment industry.

HERC had annual revenues of more than $1.5 billion in 2013, with 38 percent of its 2013 revenues derived from the construction market, 26 percent from industrial, 36 percent from other markets including oil and gas, and from other specialty niche markets, such as pump and power, government services and the entertainment industry.

Through investments in its fleet and 11 acquisitions and one joint venture since 2010, the company says HERC has significantly expanded its product line, penetrated new end markets and broadened its geographic footprint, particularly within North America.

As a separate company, with the resources devoted to its growth strategies, and management focus more closely aligned with the business, HERC is expected to be better able to capitalize on its strengths and drive stronger operating and financial performance that are less impacted by market cycles, the company said.

Following the HERC separation, Frissora will continue to lead Hertz as chairman and CEO. HERC will determine and announce its board of directors and management positions as the separation plans are finalized.

Hertz has engaged BofA Merrill Lynch and Barclays as financial advisors, Jenner & Block LLP and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP as legal counsel, and KPMG LLP as tax advisors.