BUCHAREST, Romania ¡ª Europe should lessen its dependence on Russian gas and diversify energy sources, U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry said Tuesday at a summit to improve ties between eastern Europe and the U.S. and the European Union.

Perry asserted that Europe¡¯s dependence on Russian gas has increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent in recent years, calling it ¡°a cause for concern.¡±

¡°There is great security in energy diversity,¡± he said in comments made in the Romanian capital, Bucharest. ¡°Energy security is tantamount to national security.¡±

Perry said countries of Central and Eastern Europe are facing ¡°challenges due to a single (gas) supplier and Russia¡¯s aggressive posturing.¡± He cited a nuclear project in the Czech Republic and offshore oil and gas drilling in the Black Sea as alternative energy sources.

Perry was a key speaker at the Three Seas summit, which aims to boost connectivity in Eastern Europe and reduce the gap between the European¡¯s eastern and western members.

Earlier, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said his country wants the U.S. to play a key role in Eastern Europe, to strengthen the continent as a whole.

Romanian President Klaus Iohannis, a centrist with pro-Western views, called the economic presence of the U.S. ¡°a catalyzer for economic co-operation in the area.¡±

Iohannis, who hosted the two-day summit, announced that Germany, ¡°which has multiple economic interests¡± in the region, would become a partner state in the Three Seas initiative. He also announced that Slovenia would host next year¡¯s summit.

Perry and leaders including European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas, Croatian President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic discussed some 40 government-approved projects that aim to boost regional connectivity in transport, energy and the digital fields.

Juncker called for more regional energy projects like a gas pipeline project between Austria, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria. He also called for members in the East to respect the rule of law, because ¡°investments make no sense in the absence of respect for the rule of law.¡±

¡°Europe needs to breathe with two lungs, one in the East and the other in the West, while the emphasis must be put on co-operation,¡± Juncker said.

EU members have raised concerns about government changes in Poland and Romania that they say undermine judicial independence.

The Thee Seas initiative is a co-operation of European Union members located between the Adriatic, Baltic and Black seas. Austria is the only member that wasn¡¯t formerly communist. The first summit was held in 2016. U.S. President Donald Trump attended the second summit in 2017 in Warsaw, Poland.