Inflation held steady in May, despite surging oil prices due to tensions in the Middle East.

Figures from the Office for National Statistics show the Consumer Prices Index remained at 2.4% in May, unchanged from April and in line with economists' expectations.

The steady level of the cost of living came despite a rise in fuel prices, with the price of petrol up 4.6p per litre month-on-month to 125.3p, the largest rise since January 2011. Diesel prices rose 4.7p per litre to 129.2p.

Mike Hardie, head of inflation at the ONS, said: "Recent large rises in the cost of crude oil have fed through to prices paid by consumers at the pump. Air fares and ferry prices also contributed to the overall increase in inflation due to the timing of Easter.

"However, these effects have been partly offset by price falls in computer games and energy costs rising by less than this time last year."

Sterling was trading 0.4% down versus the dollar at 1.33 and 0.3% down against the euro at 1.13 following the news.

Global oil prices have been rising due to tensions in the Middle East after US President Donald Trump said America was walking away from the Iran nuclear deal, raising the threat of a drop in production from the region.

The ONS said increases in global prices were also related to declines in production in Venezuela.

However, Brent crude prices have been volatile more recently on reports that Russia and Saudi Arabia could increase oil production.

Kevin Doran, chief investment officer at Manchester-based AJ Bell said: ¡°The Bank of England will be disappointed to see inflation holding firm at 2.4%, some way above its 2% target.

"The Monetary Policy Committee unanimously decided against an interest rate rise in May and will now be watching inflation very closely to see if this is a temporary blip in the downward trend or if it starts going up again.

¡°If inflation continues to hold firm or even increases, UK consumers will once again start to feel the pinch.

"Wage growth, including bonuses, is currently only marginally ahead of inflation at 2.5% and interest rates on cash savings remain rock bottom so rising prices will weaken the spending power of both earnings and savings.¡±

Air fares, which were influenced by the early timing of Easter this year, registered annual inflation of 8.2%, having fallen by 7.9% in the prior month.

Food price rises eased in May, with inflation coming in at 2%, down from 2.3% in the prior month.

Households were also hit with a rise in electricity bills, which were up 4.5% year-on-year. However, this was down from inflation of 8.6% in April.

A series of energy companies have announced increases to tariffs recently, and economists expect these bill hikes will continue to feed through to families throughout the summer.

The Retail Prices Index (RPI), a separate measure on inflation, was 3.3% last month, down from 3.4% in April.

TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady added: ¡°The case for higher interest rates is falling further away. Instead of an autumn rate rise, we will need an autumn boost in the budget to get the economy moving and wages rising faster.

¡°Ministers should set up a National Investment Bank, upgrade roads and rail, and bring high-speed broadband and clean energy to every part of Britain.

¡°We need an end to public service cuts that have hurt schools and hospitals and held back economic growth. And it¡¯s time to give every hard-working public servant a proper pay rise.¡±