Digital tipping has been a top suggestion that Starbucks is now adopting.

Starbucks announced upcoming enhancements to its mobile app for iPhone, which will extend the company＊s leadership in mobile payment and allow customers to recognize Starbucks partners (employees) with a tip directly from the Starbucks App for iPhone.

Beginning March 19, customers using Starbucks App for iPhone in the U.S., U.K. and Canada will experience a streamlined design and easy access to their account and My Starbucks Rewards information. In addition, customers using the app will have the option to leave a tip at more than 7,000 company-operated Starbucks stores in the U.S.

※With more than 11% of transactions a week now happening with a mobile device in our stores, and nearly 10 million customers currently using our mobile app, we＊re thrilled to make the digital experience even easier and more rewarding for our customers and partners,§ said Adam Brotman, chief digital officer for Starbucks. ※This update to the Starbucks App for iPhone is an important next step in digital innovation at Starbucks and one of the many ways we＊ll expand and improve our digital experience in the months to come.§

Digital tipping has been a top suggestion on MyStarbucksIdea.com, an online community for people to share, vote, discuss and put into action ideas on how to enhance the Starbucks Experience. Starbucks expects to introduce a complete update to the Starbucks App for Android, including a digital tipping feature, later this year.

※As more and more customers are using their phone to pay, they have asked for a convenient and meaningful way to show their appreciation to our store partners,§ said Cliff Burrows, group president, U.S., Americas and Teavana. ※We＊re proud to offer digital tipping as an option through the updated Starbucks App for iPhone to customers in the U.S.§

Through the Starbucks App for iPhone, customers can enjoy the following features:

Mobile Payment 每 For customers looking for the fastest way to pay, the Starbucks App for iPhone offers customers the convenience of paying for their favorite Starbucks beverages with their mobile devices.

Digital Tipping (NEW!) 每 Customers can show their appreciation to store partners by tipping through the Starbucks App for iPhone. Customers are given the option to provide a tip in the following denominations: 50 cents, $1, $2.

Shake to Pay (NEW!) 每 To simplify mobile payments, customers can now bring the barcode of their Starbucks Card front and center at any time, simply by shaking their mobile device.

My Starbucks Rewards status 每 The My Starbucks Rewards screen has been redesigned to streamline viewing of Rewards history. The display also features new transaction types, such as multiple transactions in a single day and promotional offers, in one integrated view.

Reload 每 Customers can reload their Starbucks Card balance directly from their mobile device with a major credit card. Customers can even set up automatic reloads.

Store Locator 每 Customers can search for the closest Starbucks stores, view the amenities available at each store, and save favorite stores.

Starbucks Card eGift 每 Allows customers to treat friends and family to their favorite Starbucks beverage, food or merchandise through a fast and easy virtual gift from their iPhone. Starbucks Card eGifts can be customized with a personal message and sent directly using contacts or Facebook friend list, for any amount between $5-$100. (U.S. only)

The Starbucks App for iPhone is available for download from the App Store or at http://sbux.co/StarbucksforiPhone. Additionally, customers can access their Starbucks account using Passbook, allowing customers＊ mobile Starbucks Cards to appear on their iPhone screen automatically after they enter a favorite Starbucks store.