Mortgage interest rates look firm in the beginning of the week at San Francisco-based major lender, Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC). According to our observations, the 30-year refinance loan retained its rate level on Monday, as it¡¯s still offered at rate of 4.500%. The same can be said about the shorter-term, but equally popular 15-year FRM, as the opening rate is coming out at 3.625%. Individuals, who prefer refinancing with non-conventional loans, may be interested to learn that the 30-year fixed FHA-backed loan is currently offered at a rate of 3.625%. Adjustable rate loans could be appealing to borrowers, who prefer flexible interest rate conditions. Presently, the 5-year ARM is listed by Wells Fargo at a rate of 3.250%. The 5-year ARM FHA is published at 3.250%, according to the lender¡¯s rate information. Additional details on today¡¯s mortgage interest rates and APRs can be found below.

Wells Fargo offers excellent mortgage interest rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those potential borrowers who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing mortgage, may find some suitable loans at this financial institution.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in New Haven, Connecticut. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

Please, bear in mind, that the present mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

For more information on Wells Fargo¡¯s home purchase and refinance mortgage interest rates, as well as details on loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, please see the lender¡¯s website.