The drama between Jos. A. Bank and Men¡¯s Wearhouse has finally come to an end, with the former ¡ª the smaller of the two companies ¡ª securing an admirable $1.8 billion offer from the latter. The saga will be remembered in the retail sector record books, industry watchers said.

Both companies¡¯ stocks reached record highs on Tuesday. For Men¡¯s Wearhouse /quotes/zigman/233713/delayed /quotes/nls/mw MW , investors were excited about the cost synergy, cross-merchandising and other growth opportunities that are expected to make Men¡¯s Wearhouse a stronger No. 4 player in the U.S. men¡¯s apparel space.

Jos. A. Bank¡¯s maneuvering is being called a brilliant move. Let¡¯s recap: the company launched its initial bid in October, which Men¡¯s Wearhouse rejected and then countered with its own offers. Each party launched its own poison pill, and Jos. A. Bank /quotes/zigman/56759/delayed /quotes/nls/josb JOSB agreed to buy Eddie Bauer to up the game ¡ª an ¡°amazing¡± piece of boardroom maneuvering, analysts said.

Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s final $65 per-share offer marked a 56% premium over Jos. A. Bank¡¯s closing price on Oct. 8, a day before it first made a move on its larger rival.

¡°This has been, assuming everything stays on track, a master class example of how to maximize value for your shareholders,¡± Customer Growth Partners President Craig Johnson told MarketWatch, adding the premium was far richer than the 30% premium Saks got in its sales to Hudson¡¯s Bay Co. in a high profile recent acquisition. ¡°I can¡¯t think, within retail, of a similarly well-choreographed value-creation waltz like we¡¯ve seen here.¡±

In his over 40 years as a mergers and acquisition lawyer, Jerry Reisman, a partner at Garden City, New York-based law firm Reisman, Peirez, Reisman and Capobianco, said the deal marked an unusual example of a successful ¡®Pac Man¡¯ defense engineered by Men¡¯s Wearhouse.

¡°Each one was strategically moving to take steps to block the other,¡± he said in an interview. ¡°A Pac Man defense is unusual. Ultimately Men¡¯s Wearhouse succeeded. Jos. A. Bank (also) got a fantastic offer. I¡¯d give them a 10 for what they accomplished. They did well for Jos. A. Bank shareholders. They might have reached this price long term on their own, but not in the short term. Men¡¯s Wearhouse paid a top price.¡±

So who is the biggest winner in this deal?

That would be hedge fund Eminence Capital. As Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s largest shareholder with a nearly 10% stake, it also is the fourth largest shareholder of Jos. A. Bank, with a 4.9% stake.

More from Behind the Storefront:

Men¡¯s Wearhouse to buy Jos. A. Bank to create the No. 4 men¡¯s clothing retailer

Why J.C. Penney is called an American comeback story by Citi analyst

Can Amy Poehler lift sales of Old Navy¡¯s $25 Pixie pants

Why Uniqlo¡¯s parent Fast Retailing would want J. Crew