This December 2, 2013 photo shows a woman reading the HealthCare.gov insurance marketplace internet site in Washington, DC. The troubleshooter appointed by President Barack Obama to overhaul a bungled health care website rollout said Sunday that improvements had made a "night and day" difference in handling online traffic. The White House has admitted previously that the launch of Healthcare.gov, where people can sign up for health insurance, was a debacle and the Obama administration pledged that the vast majority of potential customers would be able to enroll online by the end of November. AFP PHOTO / Karen BLEIER (Photo credit should read KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images) Trying to head off a new round of consumer headaches with President Barack Obama's health care law, the insurance industry says it will give customers more time to pay their premiums for January. (credit: KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images)

WASHINGTON (CBSDC) ¡ª A new report finds that one in three Americans who do not have health insurance plan to remain uninsured.

According to the survey done by Bankrate.com, of the 34 percent who say they won¡¯t purchase Obamacare, 41 percent said it was too expensive, 17 percent were against the Affordable Care Act and 13 percent said they were healthy enough not to need coverage.

¡°It¡¯s hard to generalize, but for some of these folks, it¡¯s a case of, ¡®I¡¯m in pretty good health, I don¡¯t think about these things, I know I can¡¯t afford it now,'¡± Michael Morrisey, professor of health economics at the University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Public Health, told Bankrate.com. ¡°I think it¡¯s just rolling past them, and they¡¯re not giving it a whole lot of attention.¡±

Only 56 percent polled said they plan to purchase health insurance.

Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown University¡¯s Health Policy Institute, believes that Americans are not purchasing health insurance because the outreach efforts the White House did to reinforce the positive tax subsidies failed to ¡°prompt action.¡±

¡°They found in Massachusetts, with ¡°RomneyCare,¡± that the individual mandate penalty absolutely motivated a lot of people to purchase insurance,¡± she told Bankrate.com. ¡°The Obama administration understandably tried to emphasize the positive, but people need to understand that the mandate is not insignificant ¡ª they could be hit with a big tax bill if they don¡¯t buy coverage.¡±

The survey also found that only 48 percent of Americans knew that the deadline to purchase Obamacare without facing a penalty is March 31.

¡°What people need to understand is that the door really closes on March 31,¡± Corlette said. ¡°It they don¡¯t sign up before then, they¡¯re out of luck until November 15 unless they have one of the special enrollment situations, which happen if you lose your job or get a divorce.¡±

Bankrate.com¡¯s Health Insurance Pulse Survey was conducted by the Princeton Survey Research Associated International between Feb. 20 and March 9 among 3,005 adults.