Shake up at Bank of England sees appointment of first woman deputy governor for six years
 None Will also oversee unwinding of 375bn of Bank's asset purchases

The Bank of England has named two new deputy governors as part of a shake-up of Mark Carney¡¯s leadership team.

The new appointments come amid damaging claims that some of the Bank¡¯s staff may have been involved in manipulating the 3trillion-a-day global foreign exchange markets for almost 10 years. 



International Monetary Fund deputy managing director Nemat Shafik will take on the newly-created role of deputy governor responsible for markets and banking.

Dr Shafik, who will be the first female deputy governor since Rachel Lomax left in 2008, is to conduct a root and branch review of how the Bank monitors markets.

The selection of a woman is a political coup for Chancellor George Osborne on the eve of his fifth Budget as Chancellor. The nine-strong MPC has not included a woman since Kate Barker left in 2010. There has never been a female Bank of England governor. 



Meanwhile Ben Broadbent - one of the Bank's nine-strong team on the rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee ¨C has been named as successor to Charlie Bean, the outgoing deputy governor for monetary policy. 



Both will assume their roles on August 1.



Anthony Habgood will become the new chairman of the court of the Bank of England. 



Mr Habgood, who is chairman of Costa Coffee and Premier Inn group Whitbread, will take over from Sir David Lees on July 1 as the supervisory body comes under criticism for its governance oversight in the wake of the forex claims.



Both deputy governors will serve five-year terms and sit on the Bank¡¯s Financial Policy Committee, which regulates banks, and MPC. Dr Shafik will take the MPC seat currently held by the Bank¡¯s executive director for markets, Paul Fisher.



Dr Shafik - who has Egyptian, US and British nationality - has been the IMF's deputy managing director since April 2011 and before that was the top civil servant at Britain's overseas aid department.



She will be responsible for the Bank¡¯s eventual exit from its quantitative easing policy - under which it amassed 375billion of government bonds - as well as reviewing the way the central bank gathers intelligence on markets which has come under scrutiny recently after claims that London traders manipulated key foreign exchange rates.

Mr Broadbent was formerly an economist at investment bank Goldman Sachs and is the first external member of the MPC to take up a position as deputy governor at the central bank.

He will be responsible for the Bank¡¯s analysis of Britain's economy, as well as for bank notes.