In her first meeting as Federal Reserve chair next week, Janet Yellen will put her stamp on policy by reaching for a favorite tool of central bankers: words intended to guide markets in the direction policy makers want.

For more than a year, the Fed has kept monetary policy easy with assurances that its main interest rate won¡¯t rise at least as long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent. That guidance is almost obsolete: Although unemployment is forecast to fall below the threshold this year, most Fed officials don¡¯t foresee a rate increase until 2015.

Yellen¡¯s challenge is to replace the threshold with guidance that¡¯s less specific while also making it clear that rates won¡¯t rise any time soon. If the Fed retreats to language that investors find vague and economic data comes in strong, traders are likely to move forward their estimate of when the central bank will raise rates, creating volatility in financial markets.

¡°Getting rid of the thresholds requires the committee to do something to keep the market in place,¡± said Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor who is now senior managing director at forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers in Washington. ¡°It is going to be quite volatile out there. What they are trying to do is prevent the markets from pushing up the timing of the rate increases.¡±

Volatility on interest rates of less than two years could have an impact on borrowing costs across the economy, especially on transactions in which long-term debt is financed with short-term borrowing.

The Fed¡¯s interest rate thresholds have helped lower financing costs for companies whose bonds are rated below investment grade, or less than Baa3 by Moody¡¯s Investors Service or BBB- by Standard & Poor¡¯s.

Yields on speculative-grade bonds have shrunk to within 3.82 percentage points of U.S. government securities on average, down from 5.29 percentage points when the Fed put the thresholds in place on Dec. 12, 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.

Analysts at Barclays PLC studied the market for two-year forward rates on two-year swap yields to measure the impact of expectations for changes in the Fed¡¯s benchmark interest rate, or the overnight rate for loans between banks.

The analysis shows that volatility, or the expected size and frequency of interest rate moves, remained low after the Fed put the thresholds in place but began to rise as unemployment fell closer to the Fed¡¯s 6.5 percent goal.

¡°This is probably a reasonable time to revamp¡± the Fed¡¯s post-meeting statement ¡°to take out that 6.5 percent threshold,¡± New York Fed President William Dudley, who also serves as vice chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, said March 6 at an event in New York.

Yellen and the FOMC can also reach for other tools to guide markets on the outlook for the short-term rate.

The Fed could point to its bond-purchase program, which it is trimming at a pace of $10 billion per meeting. With the current pace of purchases at $65 billion a month and seven meetings left in 2014, the Fed won¡¯t stop buying bonds until the fourth quarter.

Any increase in the short-term rate can be ruled out as long as bond purchases continue because the Fed wouldn¡¯t tighten policy with one tool while easing with another, said Michael Hanson, a former Fed economist who is now senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York.

¡°It¡¯s going to be very difficult for them to think about raising rates before concluding the taper,¡± Hanson said, ¡°so hiking this year is extremely unlikely.¡±