U.S. shares swung between gains and losses as investors weighed the strength of the economy and developments in Ukraine. The S&P 500 (INDEXSP:.INX) edged up 0.2 percent at 10:58 a.m. in New York. The 30-member Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) added 0.2 percent, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (INDEXDJX:.DJI) advanced 0.4 percent. Most followed shares included , J.C. Penney, Dick's Sporting Goods, Macy's, , , , La Jolla Pharmaceuticals and .

In consumer-discretionary shares, Inc. ( ), a clothing retailer, dropped 4.5 percent to $35.83 after saying it remains cautious about its performance in the first quarter. Chief Executive Officer Richard Hayne said he expects poor weather to contribute to lower sales and profit margins in the first quarter for its -branded shops. The company also reported earnings of 59 cents a share for the fourth quarter, beating the average analyst estimate of 54 cents.

J.C. Penney Co. ( ), a department-store chain, rallied 8.4 percent to $9.13. ( ) raised its recommendation on the stock to "buy" from "neutral," saying the company will meet its revenue and margin forecasts this year. The retailer projected on Feb. 26 that gross margin will improve and same-store sales will increase by a mid-single digit percentage this year.

Dick's Sporting Goods Inc. ( ), the largest U.S. sporting-goods chain, advanced 2.4 percent to $55.59 after saying its fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 6.9 percent, driven by a jump in sales, despite one less week in the period.

Macy's Inc. ( ), the second-largest U.S. department-store company, added 2.4 percent to $59.54. The retailer's shares were upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at Wells Fargo, which cites a solid performance by Macy's in what was a challenging holiday season for the industry.

In technology stocks, Inc. ( ), the world's largest technology company, rose 1.3 percent to $537.91. was upgraded to "outperform" from "sector perform" at Pacific Crest Securities, based on its ability to generate cash and the potential for a higher priced iPhone 6 to spur sales in 2015.

Corp. ( ), the world's largest software maker, added 0.9 percent to $38.16. The company will launch its "Titanfall" game for its Xbox One videogame console today, hoping to boost sales for the latest Xbox version.

In other stocks, Inc. ( ), a fuel-cell manufacturer, leaped 14 percent to $4.48. First-quarter revenue of $44.4 million exceeded the $42.3 million estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The stock has more than doubled this month.

( ), the biggest U.S. chemical maker by market value, skidded 1.4 percent to $66.41. said severe winter weather as well as the rising tension in Ukraine will impact current quarter earnings and sales. has a factory in Ukraine that produces a variety of seeds.

Inc. (NASDAQ:CASY), a convenience-store operator, slumped 2.2 percent to $66.39 after saying its fiscal third-quarter earnings fell 5.1 percent on higher costs, that offset an increase in revenue.

La Jolla Pharmaceuticals Co. (NASDAQ:LJPC), a drug maker, leaped 63 percent to $17.76. The company saw positive results in a mid-stage study for its experimental drug to treat chronic kidney disease.