Political crisis in Ukraine cast a shadow over markets in Western Europe last week and could spark more upheaval if tensions continue to escalate.

Fallout in Western financial markets so far has been largely muted, but any sanctions imposed on Russia by the U.S. and the European Union could elicit a response from Moscow. A deepening rift between Russia and the West could undermine Europe's fragile economic recovery, with investors paying a heavy price. "With the recent rally in global stocks showing signs of fatigue, the Ukraine crisis could prove the trigger for a market correction," says Luca Paolini, chief strategist at Pictet Asset Management.

But depending on how events unfold, the cost could be even higher for Russia, forcing it to think twice before engaging in a punitive game of tit for tat.

EUROPEAN STOCK MARKETS were mostly calm last week, despite heated rhetoric and moves by the Crimea region to secede from Ukraine and join the Russian Federation. Prices on agricultural commodities spiked higher, and gold climbed as investors fled to safe harbors.

Amid saber-rattling, German equities suffered the biggest losses in Western Europe, with the benchmark DAX index slipping 3.5%. There are fears that Russian energy could be used as a political lever, and Germany is one of Europe's biggest oil-and-gas importers.

Those worries may prove to be unfounded. It seems unlikely that Russia would turn off the taps that supply oil and gas to Western Europe for fear of damaging future trading prospects. After a mild winter, Western Europe has accumulated energy reserves, so any squeeze would have little immediate effect. And any disruption in energy flows from Russia would allow European countries to seek alternative suppliers, reducing their reliance on a volatile neighbor.

Russia's Gazprom (ticker: OGZPY), the state-run natural-gas giant, is particularly exposed. Its American depositary receipts dropped 10% in New York last week. Ordinarily, a selloff of that magnitude might look like an opportunity, but it is difficult to recommend Russian equities¡ªeven ADRs¡ªwhen the country's laws offer investors little or no protection.

Turning off the gas to the West is in nobody's best interest. Supplies to Ukraine may be less secure. Natural-gas prices were roughly flat, although they are up about 10% since the start of 2014. Fears over the security of food supplies sent wheat prices soaring 9% last week and corn up more than 7%. Ukraine is a major producer and exporter of both crops. Exports continue, but doubts linger over shipments in the near term.

There was more pain for Russians at home. Investors responded to events in Crimea by pulling money out of the country. Russian stocks fell 11%, but retraced some of those losses and ended the week down 8.6%. The withdrawals saw the ruble plummet against the euro and the dollar, prompting the Russian central bank to raise interest rates by 150 basis points (1.5 percentage points).

Michael Marrese, a strategist at JPMorgan, told a conference call organized by the Atlantic Council that he wasn't sure that was going to be enough. Russia has too many weak banks, he said, and after selling dollars, liquidity was tighter than usual. "The financial sector is the biggest vulnerability of Russia," he says. JPMorgan has downgraded estimates for Russian economic growth this year from 1.8% to 0.8%.

The standoff is likely to persist, so volatility will remain heightened while the crisis plays out.

SHARES OF BRITISH AIRWAYS owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG.U.K.) have steadily gained altitude in the past couple of years, but they can go higher still.

Its American depository receipts ( ICAGY ) can add 20% in value in the next 12 months, as a restructuring program moves forward, passenger revenue continues to increase, and cost-cutting boosts profits.

IAG, created in 2011 by the merger of the British and Spanish flag carriers, BA and Iberia, is targeting 1.8 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in operating profits in 2015. That is more than double the 770 million the company reported in 2013.

However, IAG should reach this financial destination on schedule. British Airways is profiting from additional takeoff and landing slots at London's busy Heathrow Airport that were acquired with British Midland International in 2012. A revamp at Iberia sharply reduced losses last year.

After doubling in value in the past 12 months, IAG's ADRs were trading on Friday at $37.35, or less than 10 times estimated 2015 earnings of $3.88 a share. IAG is expected to earn $2.70 this year, up from $1.31 in 2013. In comparison, Delta Air Lines (DAL) trades at almost 12 times forecast 2015 earnings.

IAG could be a first-class addition to investors' portfolios.