Persisting tension between Russia and Ukraine in the Crimean peninsula has painted a grim picture for the autonomous region; an escalating crisis could lead to political and economic turmoil for both countries. Although the United States will likely remain unaffected in the short term, a prolonged or growing crisis could lead to long-term economic consequences, including trade sanctions and spikes in commodity prices.

Short term: Much to do about nothing

 While Russia¡¯s occupation of Crimea has pressured already heated circumstances in the region, the immediate consequences for the US economy are minimal. Both Russia and Ukraine, which is nicknamed ¡°the breadbasket of Europe,¡± are major international exporters of agricultural commodities. Consequently, global commodity prices jumped following news that Russia had occupied the Crimean peninsula. The United States Department of Agriculture projects that 10.4% of global wheat production and 16.7% of wheat exports will come from the two countries. Both are also important producers of coarse grains such as corn, barley, sorghum and rye, accounting for 18.3% of global exports. Fears that grain exports from the region could be interrupted caused agricultural commodity prices to spike.

The threat of armed conflict has also led to increases in global energy prices. Russia is one of the world¡¯s largest natural gas suppliers, accounting for nearly one-fifth of global production and exports, according to the latest available data from the International Energy Agency. Russia¡¯s oil production is similarly important to global supply, accounting for 13.5% of the world¡¯s crude oil production and 11.9% of total exports.

Fortunately for consumers and businesses in the United States, neither is likely to be affected in the near future. Producers are hedged against short-term fluctuations of global commodity prices, making it unlikely that the current conflict will affect prices for consumers at the gas pump or at the grocery store.

Long term: A tale of two stories

 A continuation or escalation of the current crisis between Russia and Ukraine, could lead to potential sanctions and asset freezes and subsequently, global economic tremors. However, the direct consequences for the US economy are minimal. Neither Russia nor Ukraine is a significant US trade partner, cumulatively accounting for just 1.1% of the total export/import flow for the United States. Still, a number of domestic industries and companies could suffer if economic relations between the United States, Russia and Ukraine are disrupted.

Russia is a growing market and supply chain partner for the US automotive, aerospace and energy sectors. Last year, US auto manufacturers exported $1.2 billion worth of goods to Russia, according to the United States International Trade Commission (ITC). General Motors, the largest auto manufacturer in the United States, sold 258,000 vehicles in Russia, giving it a 9.1% share of the total market in the country. The company has also invested in significant projects in Russia, including an expansion of its St. Petersburg plant, which is expected to increase its production capacity from 98,000 vehicles to 230,000 by 2015. Economic sanctions against Russia, or Russian restrictions in response, could jeopardize the position of US automakers in what is estimated as Europe¡¯s largest auto market.

Aerospace companies like Boeing also stand to lose from deterioration in trade relations. Aerospace products comprised the number one US export to Russia last year, according to the ITC, totaling $1.8 billion. While accounting for only 1.7% of total US aerospace exports, denial into Russia¡¯s rapidly growing market (exports grew at an average annual rate of 27.2% in the five years to 2013) could hurt companies US companies. The loss of alloy supplies from Russia would have an even more damaging effect on US aerospace firms. According to Bloomberg, Boeing sources about 35.0% of its titanium from Russian VSMPO-AVISMA and has plans to invest $27.0 billion in the country in the coming decades.

Among US companies in danger, major US energy players, like ExxonMobil and Chevron, could lose billions of dollars invested in Russia. Exxon¡¯s operations in the country are plentiful: The company manages the Sakhalin-1 oil and gas production and exploration consortium, and in 2011, entered into an agreement with Russian oil giant Rosneft to develop oil deposits on the Artic Shelf and in Western Siberia. However, potential sanctions could derail this agreement worth as much as $500.0 billion.

However, while direct US exposure to Russia and Ukraine is minimal, a prolonged conflict could have serious indirect consequences for US consumers, businesses and investors. Because Russia and Ukraine are significant agricultural producers, global grain prices could skyrocket if exports are disrupted, forcing investors, governments and end users to scramble to secure supplies. In turn, US consumers could end up paying more for staple foods and other products that use grain. On the upside, US grain producers would face less competition and therefore, higher profit margins.

Furthermore, Russia is one of the largest exporters of oil and natural gas, with a significant portion of its supply piped through Ukraine. If supply is disrupted, or if fear of disruption persists, global energy prices could climb, leading to higher oil and gas prices in the United States. In turn, consumers and business would experience higher transportation costs, and subsequently, spikes in the prices of most goods. Fortunately for US consumers, because the United States lacks the necessary infrastructure to export is growing supply of natural gas, the domestic natural gas market is relatively insulated from spikes in natural gas prices.

Due to the region¡¯s essential role in the flow of global grains and energy, any disruption in trade relations will most likely not be aimed at these commodities. Only under certain circumstances will the supply of these commodities be impacted (i.e. if military conflict occurs, or if Russia coerces Ukraine by shutting down its supply of natural gas and oil). Overall, though the conflict is bound to influence the position of certain companies, the threat of large-scale economic turmoil is minimal.