Chinese Premier vows to stabilise growth, use 'iron fist' against pollution

China will declare a war on smog, take out high-level corrupt officials and let poor performing companies fall by the wayside.

These were some of the messages coming out of the once-a-year press conference from the Chinese Premier during the last day of the National People's Congress.

Li Keqiang also used his address to deride those analysts who said his country was in for a hard landing economically.

Instead, he said that with "guts" and "wisdom" China had faced down massive economic pressures over the last 12 months.

"We believe we have the ability, and all the means, to ensure that economic growth will stay within a reasonable range this year."

When asked about China's economy he spoke of the massive difficulties over the past year - the downward pressure on growth and its squeeze on credit.

His comments come almost a week after the country's first ever default on a domestic corporate bond.

Shanghai-based Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co. said Friday it was unable to make full bond interest payments of $US14.7 million, sending it into default.

"We are reluctant to see defaults of financial products, but some cases are hard to avoid," Premier Li said.

"We must enhance oversight and solve problems in a timely way to ensure no systemic and regional risks."

In late December, China revealed in its long-awaited audit that liabilities carried by local governments ballooned to 17.9 trillion yuan ($US2.9 trillion) as of the end of June.

Other concerns about the Chinese economy include shadow banking, a massive network of lending through informal networks such as online financial websites, credit guarantee companies and microcredit firms.

"The result of a government audit showed that debt risks are generally under control, and the debt/GDP ratio of government debt is below the international warning line," said Li.

"On the risks of shadow banking, we are enhancing oversight and have already set a timetable to push forward the implementation of Basel III rules."

Premier Li has pledged a zero-tolerance approach to corrupt officials and behaviour.

On Thursday, the country's top prosecutor vowed to step up the hunt for corrupt officials who have fled abroad.

The head of China's Supreme People's Procuratorate, Cao Jianming, says the country will "work more closely with judicial organs abroad to expand channels and measures to hunt those who have fled, and to recover ill-gotten gains", the China Daily newspaper reported.

China's Ministry of Public Security reportedly estimates there are more than 500 economic fugitives abroad.

Most of them have fled to the United States, Canada and Southeast Asian countries.

"No matter who it is, or how senior their position, everyone is equal before the law," Premier Li said.

"If they violate party discipline or national law, they will be seriously dealt with and punished according to the law."

Premier Li Keqiang said the government in Beijing would fight pollution with an "iron fist", after declaring war on smog at the start of the year's National People's Congress.

A top Chinese environment official recently said that the country's air quality was below national standards in almost all major cities last year.

Vice Environment Minister, Wu Xiaoqing, said only three Chinese cities met the air quality standards.

Chinese cities are regularly cloaked with smoggy haze with many resident needing to wear masks to avoid the toxic air.

Premier Li said there would be "grave punishments" against the nation¡¯s top polluters, but did not specify what actions the government would take.