Last week, the US Dollar remained under pressure on the back of easing geopolitical concerns over the situation in Crimea. This week too, the US Dollar started the week on back-foot even as the Empire State Manufacturing Index, following a sharp drop in February, showed improving manufacturing conditions for the month of March in New York state. Moreover, revised Euro-zone annual inflation rate on Monday, revised lower to 0.7% for February from 0.8% estimated earlier, extended little support to the US Dollar.

This week, investors are likely to remain on edge and focus on the outcome of a two-day meeting of the US Federal Reserve¡¯s policy setting committee led by the new chairwoman, Janet Yellen, starting today and concluding on Wednesday. The FOMC is scheduled to announce its latest monetary policy decision on Wednesday. The Fed is expected to continue its monetary stimulus tapering plan with further reduction of $10 Billion to its bond-buying program, bringing its monetary stimulus to $55 Billion-a-month.

Accompanying the policy decision, the Fed is also scheduled to release its economic projections on growth, inflation and interest-rates forecasts over the next 2 years. The Fed has repeatedly pledged to keep interest rates lower until the unemployment rate declines below 6.5% threshold. Considering the recent steady drop in the unemployment rate to 6.7% in February, market participants are expecting the new guideline to be more specific in terms of various indicators that provide a more holistic view and fully summarize the overall health of the US labor market.

Only an upbeat forecasts for growth, inflation and interest rates from the first FOMC meeting led by the new chairwoman, Janet Yellen, could spur some recovery and have a medium to longer-term positive impact for the US Dollar.

In addition to the FOMC decision, market participants will also scrutinize some key housing and manufacturing indicators to judge the overall health of the sectors. This week¡¯s key housing data include the release of building permits and housing starts on Tuesday and existing home sales data on Thursday, while the Philly Fed Manufacturing Index is also scheduled for release on Thursday.

Meanwhile, consumer inflation data, CPI and Core CPI, which continues running well below the Fed¡¯s target of 2%, is also scheduled for release on Tuesday. Both CPI and Core CPI are expected to register a month-on-month gain of 0.1%.

For a comprehensive list of various economic events, check-out Forex Calendar

Although, the US economic calendar is likely to take the center stage, some important economic announcements from UK economic could also grab investor¡¯s attention. Considering the recent drop in UK unemployment rate to 7.2% in the last quarter of 2013, approaching the 7% threshold for BoE to consider raising interest rates, this week¡¯s UK labor market report along with the minutes from BoE¡¯s latest policy meeting, both scheduled for release on Wednesday, will be keenly examined by market participants for any possibilities of interest rate hike by BoE in the near-future. Given GBPUSD currency pair¡¯s recent consolidation, a highly disappointing UK employment report could only deteriorate the medium to long-term uptrend of the pair.

In Japan, February trade balance data, scheduled for release on Wednesday, is expected to show a smaller deficit of 0.89 Trillion Yen after posting a much larger deficit of 1.82 Trillion in January.