Yesterday, we observed some increases in 30-year mortgage rates at major loan provider, TD Bank (NYSE:TD). However, now interest rates headed back to those levels they had before Monday¡¯s upticks. According to the latest mortgage rate quotes, the standard 30-year home loan is coming out at a rate of 4.562%, an improvement over yesterday¡¯s level (4.688%). The 15-year conventional home mortgage hasn¡¯t seen any alterations today, it has an asking rate of 3.562%.

Moving on to the refinance loan arena, the long-term 30-year refinance loan tumbled to 4.625% from 4.750%. Borrowers, looking to refinance with the help of the bank¡¯s 15-year mortgage, will see this type of fixed loan being offered at a rate of 3.625%. On the other hand, adjustable rate mortgages have remained unchanged for the second straight day this week. According to today¡¯s data, the 7/1 ARM is coming out at a rate of 3.500%, whilst the shorter-term, 5/1 adjustable rate loan can be had for as low as 3.250%. Check the details below for additional information on TD Bank¡¯s latest mortgage interest rates.

Mortgage shoppers who take a visit to TD Bank will see some excellent mortgage loans under the lender¡¯s home purchase and refinance programs. Those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some ideal mortgage packages at this financial institution.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in Framingham, MA. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to refinance an existing mortgage with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in Framingham, MA. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Please, note that the current interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

For additional mortgage loan options, as well as details on borrowing terms and conditions, please take a look at the lender¡¯s website.