While investigators are stumped over the fate of missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, the lack of evidence as to what happened hasn¡¯t stopped wild ¨C and I mean WILD ¨C speculation as to the fate of the missing jet and its 239 passengers and crew members.

It¡¯s not unusual for mysterious or dramatic aviation accidents to catch the imaginations of the conspiratorially inclined - the Korean Air Lines Flight 007, Pan Am Flight 103, and TWA Flight 800 tragedies spurred all kinds of claims of conspiracy, and last week¡¯s apparent tragedy in the Gulf of Thailand is no different.

Conspiracy theorists took to social media this week to contribute their own ideas as to why Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 disappeared.

1. Aliens are involved: Alexandra Bruce at ForbiddenKnowledgeTV points to records on the flight mapping website Flightradar24 as evidence of extra-terrestrial meddling. She goes so far as to say the ¡°captured signals¡± could ¡°only be termed a UFO.¡±

Her source? YouTube user DAHBOO77, who posted a video that attempts to recreate the plane¡¯s last moments. The clip shows a quick-moving plane and other strange anomalies around the time of the MH370¡¯s disappearance from radar.

Loading the logs directly on the site allows readers to easily click and identify the so-called ¡°UFO,¡± which is clearly marked as Korean Airlines Flight 672. Its apparent supersonic speed is likely related to a glitch in the system, not alien intervention, according to the site¡¯s CEO Mikael Robertsson.

2. The passengers are still alive: Families awaiting news about lost loved ones have told reporters they are able to call the cell phones of their missing relatives, and have said they can also see their instant messaging service accounts remain active online.

The news has fueled all kinds of speculation, but phones that are turned off do not always necessarily go straight to voicemail. Factors such as location, the phone¡¯s network type and its proximity to a cell phone tower can all affect whether a dead phone will still ring on the caller¡¯s end.

You can test this for yourself: turn off your cell phone, remove the battery and call your number on another line - most kinds of phones will still ring before you reach voicemail.

3. There's a Snowden connection: Reddit user Dark_Spectre posted an unusual theory on the website¡¯s conspiracy boards, related to 20 employees of the Texas-based Freescale Semiconductor who were reportedly on the flight:

Dark_Spectre goes as far as to suggest those chip experts may have been kidnapped by Chinese or American authorities: 



Yeah, because that would definitely be the easiest way of doing that.

So far, there is no evidence of an explosion.

4. Iranians kidnapped engineers: UFO Digest¡¯s Tony Elliott points to revelations that an Iranian national was responsible for buying plane tickets for two passengers with stolen passports as evidence that the country was involved, possibly to extract technological intelligence from Freescale Semiconductor employees.

Elliott concludes that the plane is in East Timor, due to an apparent u-turn made by the plane in its final moments on radar.

The theory doesn¡¯t address why the plane suddenly disappeared from radar entirely - no passenger plane could drop from 36,000 feet to below radar horizon in mere seconds.

5. Passengers were taken to Pyongyang: This map is slightly deceptive - while the trip to both Beijing and Pyongyang appear equidistant, this theory would require the plane fly at extremely low altitudes to avoid radar detection, which - due to greater air density at lower altitudes - would require more fuel to travel the same distance.

6. The Illuminati is involved: ¡°Was looking at the Wikipedia page for the missing Malaysia Airlines, and noticed that it's was [sic] the 404th 777 Boeing produced,¡± Redditor i-am-SHER-locked wrote.

7. There's a new Bermuda triangle: Though the Bermuda Triangle¡¯s status as one of the sea¡¯s most mysteriously treacherous zones has been debunked for decades, it doesn¡¯t stop some from seeing triangles in the Gulf of Thailand.

8. The plane is in Vietnam, where it is waiting to be used as a weapon: ¡°Conspiracy and prophecy in the news¡± blogger ShantiUniverse said she has three possible theories about what happened to Flight MH370: A major mechanical error (OK), a terrorist attack (reasonable) or it was whisked away to a secret Vietnamese airport to be used in a later 9/11 style attack (...).

9: There was some kind of miniature hydrogen bomb controlled by an iPhone app and it created a miniature black hole: It¡¯s hard to tell whether @Angela_Stalcup¡¯s account is the work of a completely unhinged lunatic or a genius, masterful troll. Wading through claims that Donald Trump runs a prostitution ring through Trump University or that Russian President Vladimir Putin is one of 92 clones of Adolf Hitler, you may stumble upon this gem of a theory about Flight MH370:

So what really happened?: The truth is, no one really knows. The AP now cites a senior Malaysian military official who reports the country has radar data detecting the plane in the Malacca Strait - hundreds of miles from the last position recorded by civilian authorities.

*Armchair conspiracy theorists have also speculated (on Twitter, of course) that the passengers on flight 370 have landed on a remote, impossible-to-find island a la "Lost."

NPR offers some more level-headed theories about the plane¡¯s fate here.