Mark Carney doesn¡¯t obviously share many characteristics with Mervyn (now Lord) King. But one thing Mr Carney does seem to have inherited from his predecessor as Governor of the Bank of England is a belief that the UK economy is still far too weak to tolerate any withdrawal of extraordinary monetary support, and will remain that way for some time.

Right up to his last days at the Bank of England, Lord King was a supporter of the need for more quantitative easing. In place of asset purchases, Mr Carney has substituted ¡°forward guidance¡±, but the thinking behind the two approaches is much the same. Both are founded on the idea that there is still lots of spare capacity in the economy left behind by the recession; to compensate, the Bank of England has to keep its foot full down on the monetary accelerator.

This message came across loud and clear in Mr Carney¡¯s marathon appearance on before the Commons Treasury Select Committee on Tuesday. Judging by what he said, Mr Carney remains overtly dovish in his approach to monetary policy.

He¡¯s said this before, of course, but he said it even more strongly at Tuesday¡¯s hearing; the point at which interest rates will need to start rising to keep inflation low is still some distance off, and when they do rise, it will only be gradually and to a level which is considerably lower than the pre-crisis norm. Mr Carney has insisted that he is not a believer in the again fashionable idea of ¡°secular stagnation¡± ¨C the belief that many Western economies have sunk into a near-permanent state of impaired demand ¨C but his comments often seem to place him in that camp.

For instance, it was very apparent from his musings that he believes there to be much more slack in the economy than his Monetary Policy Committee colleague Martin Weale, who at Tuesday¡¯s hearing challenged some of the assumptions behind the idea of endemic ¡°underemployment¡±.

What does all this mean for the astonishing series of monetary reponses we¡¯ve seen over the past five years to the financial crisis? One intriguing suggestion by Mr Carney is that the Bank of England¡¯s balance sheet, swollen under quantitative easing by 375bn of asset purchases, will remain permanently bigger. So does this mean that at least some of the QE will never be unwound? Many of us have long suspected that this is in practice what will occur, that effectively some part of the national debt has been permanently monetised.

But this is not really what Mr Carney meant. Indeed, he has repeatedly rejected the idea of monetary financing of government spending, a very slippery path if ever there was one. His point was rather that private banks, badly scarred by recent experience, may well choose to keep more of their deposits as central bank reserves as QE is unwound, with the consequence that the Bank of England ends up with a much bigger balance sheet than it had before the crisis.

To all intents and purposes, it will therefore look as if the Bank of England has failed to unwind some of the QE, but in fact it will be merely a change in the way banks manage their liquidity. Follow? Oh, never mind; the wider, more simplistic point is this: Fiat currencies are routinely the subject of government and central bank manipulation. We can only hope that the technocrats who perform this function know what they are doing. As is apparent in the tendency of some economies to hyper-inflation and catastrophic loss of market confidence, quite often they don¡¯t.

In any case, the idea behind much modern monetary policy is that inflation is controlled not so much by targeting the quantity of money, as by influencing demand for money through its costs. Increase interest rates, and demand for money decreases; lowering rates should theoretically cause demand for money to rise. Mr Carney believes that such demand in the UK economy is still structurally deficient. My worry it is that it is already very much apparent in fast inflating asset prices, or in other words that ultra loose monetary policy is already sowing the seeds for future financial crises. We will see.