SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡ª After taking the weekend off to recuperate, both Carl Icahn and eBay Inc. put their gloves back on Monday and got personal by trading more punches in the ongoing public slugfest between the activist investor and the online retailing giant.

Before the market opened, eBay EBAY, -8.87% filed a preliminary proxy statement calling upon its shareholders to reject Icahn¡¯s two nominees for the e-commerce company¡¯s board of directors at eBay¡¯s next annual meeting. Ichan has nominated Jonathan Christodoro and Daniel Ninivaggi, to eBay¡¯s board, as part of his efforts to get eBay to spin off its PayPal e-payments business as a separate company.

EBay also urged shareholders to vote for the current directors that are up for re-election: Fred Anderson, Edward Barnholt, Scott Cook and company Chief Executive John Donahoe.

And it was Donahoe, in particular, who was in Icahn¡¯s sights on Monday.

In the latest of his colorful open letters to eBay shareholders, Icahn claimed that the ¡°inexcusable incompetence¡± of Donahoe has cost eBay¡¯s stock owners more than $4 billion, and based his views on Donahoe¡¯s overseeing of the company¡¯s sale of Skype to a private-equity consortium in 2009.

¡°Who can doubt that if eBay were a private company, Donahoe would be fired when the facts were disclosed to the owners?¡± Icahn said. ¡°But sadly at many of our public companies, such as eBay, there is a lack of accountability, and transgressions by management are swept under the rug by crony boards.¡±

While eBay was in the red, Facebook Inc. FB, -0.56% rose more than 3%, to $72.03. UBS analyst Eric Sheridan raised his price target on the social-networking giant to $90 a share from $72. In a research note, Sheridan said that Facebook¡¯s shares are a ¡°snowball¡± that is picking up speed, in part from new advertising deals that are helping the company gain more traction with brands.

Apple Inc. AAPL, +1.52% ended the day with a gain of 48 cents a share to close at $530.92 after the company released iOS 7.1, the latest upgrade to its operating systems the iPhone and iPad. The newest version of iOS 7 comes with Apple¡¯s new CarPlay technology that integrates iOS content with compatible automobiles.

Among other leading tech stocks, decliners were in the majority, as sector leaders such as IBM Corp. IBM, -1.11% Netflix Inc. NFLX, -4.05% Amazon.com Inc. AMZN, -0.38% Microsoft Corp. MSFT, +0.15% and Google Inc. GOOG, +0.78% retreated.

The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, -0.48% managed to erase almost all of its early losses and dow by 1.7 points at 4,334 and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index SOX, -1.55% also ended the day in the red.

Five apps for spying on your spouse

AT&T again to trim U.S. wireless priceless

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.