AP-Excite

 

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) - Malaysia says searches have begun in both the northern and southern corridors of a vast swath of Asia where the missing Malaysia Airlines jet is believed to have ended up. 

 

Malaysian Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein says that Kazakhstan joined the search Monday in the farthest northwest section of the search area. Earlier Monday, Australia said was taking the lead in searching over the southern Indian Ocean. 

 

Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 with 239 people aboard went missing March 8 en route to Beijing. Investigators say it was deliberately diverted. 

 

Malaysian authorities say satellite data shows the plane sent a signal about 7 1/2 hours after takeoff - shortly before it would have run out of fuel - from somewhere on a huge arc stretching from Kazakhstan to the southern Indian Ocean. 

 



 

Read more: 



 

 

 

A Chinese girl is taken a picture in front of an electronic display showing the weather information of the cities in Asia at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, in Sepang, Malaysia, Monday, March 17, 2014. When someone at the controls calmly said the last words heard from the missing Malaysian jetliner, one of the Boeing 777's communications systems had already been disabled, adding to suspicions that one or both of the pilots were involved in the disappearance of the flight. (AP Photo/Vincent Thian) 

 

 Source:KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) - Malaysia says searches have begun in both the northern and southern corridors of a vast swath of Asia where the missing Malaysia Airlines jet is believed to have ended up.Malaysian Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein says that Kazakhstan joined the search Monday in the farthest northwest section of the search area. Earlier Monday, Australia said was taking the lead in searching over the southern Indian Ocean.Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 with 239 people aboard went missing March 8 en route to Beijing. Investigators say it was deliberately diverted.Malaysian authorities say satellite data shows the plane sent a signal about 7 1/2 hours after takeoff - shortly before it would have run out of fuel - from somewhere on a huge arc stretching from Kazakhstan to the southern Indian Ocean.Read more: http://apnews.excite.com/article/20140317/DACJCCUG2.html A Chinese girl is taken a picture in front of an electronic display showing the weather information of the cities in Asia at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, in Sepang, Malaysia, Monday, March 17, 2014. When someone at the controls calmly said the last words heard from the missing Malaysian jetliner, one of the Boeing 777's communications systems had already been disabled, adding to suspicions that one or both of the pilots were involved in the disappearance of the flight. (AP Photo/Vincent Thian)