If you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. Fields marked with an are required 

 If we thought that the story of the Malaysian plane couldn't get any more complicated, Sunday proved us wrong.

 The Malaysian government has stated definitively that the aircraft's communications and locator systems were deliberately shut down after it left Malaysian airspace. The plane changed direction -- and lost altitude. A satellite picked up signals from the airplane, signals that continued up to seven hours after its last regular communication, about the amount of time it could have flown on the amount of fuel in its tanks.

 The pilots of the lost plane have become suspects and their homes were searched, because all the aircraft's activity post-disappearance required great skill as well familiarity with the systems of a Boeing 777 -- especially shutting down the aircraft communications addressing and reporting system, which automatically broadcasts data about the plane's position and flight to ground control without involving the pilot. While the transponder system identified with the plane for ground radar is comparatively easy to shut down (a single switch has to be moved to "off"), shutting down the ACARS is a multistep process that demands thorough knowledge of the plane.

 But rather than making the search easier and moving us closer to finding the airplane, the new information makes a solution to the mystery farther from our grasp. Why? Because it expands the search radius significantly. If we were focused on a flight corridor that included the plane's planned flight path, the scene of the disappearance has now become the vast Indian Ocean. Seven flight hours in a general western direction from the time of the plane's last report would put the aircraft in any of an infinite number of places, which makes the search for it like looking for a needle in a haystack.

 But anyway, everyone -- particularly the Americans, who have a huge interest in finding the plane because it was manufactured in the U.S. -- is trying to narrow the search. At the moment, a possible "northern route" that passes over India and into Kazakhstan is being discussed, but this makes less sense, because the areas the plane would have had to pass over are covered by military ground radar of countries on a high level of alert. The route that seems more logical is one that turns south at the Strait of Malacca toward the southern Indian Ocean, which would have brought the plane to within some 1,000 kilometers (600 miles) of Perth in western Australia.