If there¡¯s a lesson to be learned from the bitcoin collapse, it¡¯s that just because an investment is trendy and cool, that doesn¡¯t mean you should abandon all common sense and sink your money into it.

¡°Digital currencies right now are very, very trendy,¡± said Joseph Rotunda, director of enforcement at the Texas State Securities Board. ¡°There¡¯s a lot of buzz about them. It¡¯s really easy to look at the benefits, the positives of digital currencies, without really appreciating these risks.

¡°Those risks can wipe out the entirety of their investment in not months, not weeks, but in a matter of moments.¡±

Digital currencies like bitcoin are essentially long lines of computer code that may be encrypted and sent or received without involving a financial institution or government agency.

¡°In many ways, digital currencies operate as ¡®online cash,¡¯ only this type of currency is extremely volatile and can disappear the same way your money disappears when you lose your wallet,¡± said John Morgan, Texas securities commissioner.

Bitcoin has become increasingly popular among tech enthusiasts, libertarians and risk-seeking investors because it allows people to buy goods and services and exchange money across borders without involving banks, credit card issuers or other third parties. Criminals like bitcoin for the same reasons.

The currency attracted media attention and the fascination of millions as an increasing number of large retailers such as Overstock.com began to accept it.

Bitcoin isn¡¯t the only digital currency that¡¯s sprung up.

¡°The last I checked, which was right at the beginning of this year, there were about 14 digital currencies,¡± Rotunda said. ¡°There¡¯s more of them in production right now, in development. It¡¯s a real fertile ground.¡±

Investors must use caution when dealing with digital currencies, securities regulators said.

¡°Anybody who¡¯s investing in digital currencies is going to be highly dependent upon the securities systems, the infrastructure, the accounting practices, overall business model of whomever they¡¯re entrusting the custody of their investment to,¡± Rotunda said.

What¡¯s more, a lack of regulation of digital currencies leaves investors exposed, he said.

¡°Digital currencies in large part allow users to be anonymous,¡± Rotunda said. ¡°That makes it hard from a regulatory standpoint to regulate those transactions, but it also fosters an environment that caters to money laundering to conceal transactions to all sorts of situations where a promoter could be playing with investors¡¯ money without their own knowledge.¡±

That includes Ponzi schemes. A Ponzi scheme is an investment scam that involves payment of purported returns to existing investors from funds contributed by new investors.

Ponzi scheme organizers often solicit new investors by promising to invest funds in investments that promoters claim generate high returns with little or no risk.

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a civil complaint last year that Trendon T. Shavers of McKinney operated a bitcoin-denominated Ponzi scheme under the name Bitcoin Savings and Trust.

The SEC alleged that from September 2011 to September 2012 Shavers raised more than 700,000 bitcoins worth about $4.5 million based on bitcoin prices then.

¡°We are concerned that the rising use of virtual currencies in the global marketplace may entice fraudsters to lure investors into Ponzi and other schemes in which these currencies are used to facilitate fraudulent, or simply fabricated, investments or transactions,¡± the SEC said in an Investor Alert in July. ¡°These schemes often promise high returns for getting in on the ground floor of a growing Internet phenomenon.¡±

¡°If you¡¯re investing in bitcoins or something tied to bitcoins or other digital currencies, do due diligence on the person promoting the investment,¡± he said. ¡°Try to look at these things objectively, evaluate their own personal situation. An investment tied to digital currencies may be suitable for someone in their 20s, in their 30s. When you¡¯re talking about a retiree¡¯s nest egg, that may not be something they¡¯d want to subject to this type of a risk.¡±