Malaysian authorities are probing new information that the missing plane with 239 people on board dropped to an altitude of 5,000 feet or possibly lower to evade radar detection after it turned back mid-air, the PTI reported.

Investigators are poring over the Boeing 777 flight MH370 profile to determine if it had flown low and used "terrain masking" during most of the eight hours it was missing from the radar coverage of possibly at least three countries, the New Straits Times reported today.

Malaysia drew more scathing criticism from China Monday over conflicting information on missing jet MH370, with state media and social media users voicing increasing scepticism as the search enters its 10th day, AFP reported.

India has denied the `9/11-style attack` theory by the missing Malaysia airline jet.

Indian Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid while speaking to an English news channel on the issue said, "I don`t think we have gone that far," as per AFP report.

11:35 am: Co-pilo wanted to marry his girlfriend

27-year-old Fariq Abdul Hamid, the co- pilot of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane, had plans to marry his 26-year-old girlfriend Capt Nadira Ramli.

Nadira, a daughter of a senior Malaysia Airlines pilot, have known each other for nine years, a news report stated.

11:00 am: Flight engineer on the missing plane being probed

The Malaysian police are are now investigating a flight engineer who was travelling on the plane.

29 years old Mohd Khairul Amri Selamat is a Malaysian national and had technical flying knowledge.

10:30 am: Final words from jet came after one of the communication system was shut

Last words "All right, good night" were the final words spoken from the Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 to air traffic controllers.

The words were spoken after one of the plane`s Aircraft and Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) was shut down.

The transponder was then shut down 14 minutes later.

Malaysia requested Australia to search the southern arc for the missing plane which had 239 people on board.

Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said that additional resources have been deployed.

 9:30 am: Pilots of the missing plane being probed

The probe is now focusing on the pilots of the missing plane after - Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah and his first officer, Fariq Abdul Hamid.

Malaysia`s Transport Minister had said that "All right, good night" words could be heard from the cockpit after the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS)was deliberately shut down.