The Bank of England¡¯s stability board is ¡°keeping a beady eye¡± on Britain¡¯s roaring property market, Charlie Bean has said, amid warnings that the economic recovery is too reliant on house prices and consumer spending.

Mr Bean, the Deputy Governor of Monetary Policy at the Bank, told the North East Chamber of Commerce that there were ¡°unmistakable signs that a robust recovery is under way¡± in the UK. But he said so far not enough growth was built on the stable pillars of business investment, higher productivity and exports.

¡°To date much of the recovery has been on the back of higher consumer spending and housing investment,¡± he said. He pointed out that last year consumer spending rose 2.2pc while housing investment jumped almost 10pc.

He said the Bank¡¯s Financial Policy Committee is aware of the ¡°risk¡± in rising house prices, rather than house building, and ¡°excessive expansion¡± in mortgage lending. ¡°For that reason, the Bank¡¯s FPC, which is charged with maintaining the overall stability of the financial system, is keeping a beady eye on the housing market,¡± he said.

Mr Bean warned it was ¡°still early days¡± in the effort to ensure the UK recovery is sustained. ¡°For the recovery to be both sustained and sustainable we really want to see three things happen,¡± Mr Bean said, highlighting business investment, a ¡°revival¡± in productivity growth and a boost in exports to reduce the UK¡¯s current account deficit.

He argued that business investment was lagging the recovery while confidence returned but he said ¡°there are reasonable grounds to expect that the handover from households to businesses will be realised.¡±

But on the prospects for productivity Mr Bean said the ¡°picture is murkier¡±. He noted that output per person-hour worked is more than 15pc below where it would have been if it had continued growing at its pre-crisis rate. This he said was due to ¡°over head labour¡±, the low rate of pay growth and banks forbearing on loans to weaker businesses but extending credit to more productive enterprises. ¡°The course of productivity is absolutely central to the durability of the recovery,¡± Mr Bean said.

Mr Bean said that the depreciation of the pound during the crisis - sterling fell 25pc between mid-2007 and the start of 2009 - has led to a boost in exports. But he argued that the level of exports, particularly of services, has ¡°to date been somewhat disappointing.¡± He said it might be ¡°just a matter of time¡± before exports grow more strongly but he warned an appreciation of sterling would ¡°not be particularly helpful.¡±

In terms of the Bank¡¯s efforts to help the recovery, Mr Bean backed Mark Carney¡¯s new rates policy, dubbed ¡°fuzzy guidance¡± by some economists. He repeated the Governor¡¯s pledge that a rise in interest rates, when it comes, will be gradual.

¡°It is still early days and the MPC will be doing its utmost to ensure that recovery is not nipped in the bud,¡± he said. ¡°But when the time does come for us to start raising Bank Rate, we should celebrate that as a welcome sign that the economy is finally well on the road back to normality.¡±