Candid, loyal and a superb leader. Those were the words used by IMF managing director Christine Lagarde on Tuesday to describe the Bank of England's newest member and deputy governor, Nemat Shafik.

Shafik - or Minouche as she is known - will need these qualities if she is to get to grips with the Bank's markets and banking division, which is currently caught up in allegations that it was involved in the rigging of the foreign exchange market . It suspended one of its employees this month, and an investigation into the Bank's conduct is ongoing.

Shafik's appointment is part of a drive to have more women in senior roles at the Bank. It is well known that Mark Carney, the Bank's Governor, and Chancellor George Osborne are looking for more women to serve at the top.

"The lack of participation, especially on the MPC, is striking," Carney wrote in a letter to Osborne dated August 28 last year. "The Bank has a responsibility to foster top female economists all the way through the ranks."

Born in Alexandria, Egypt, Shafik has described her father as an "Anglophone-trained scientist" and her mother as a "Francophone-trained literary type." Surrounded by poverty, Shafik left Egypt at the age of four to begin a new life in America.

In an interview in 2001, she said the "combination of empirical scientific rigor but at the same time being more human and earthy were a big part of my upbringing".

With degrees from Oxford, the London School of Economics and Massachusetts-Amherst under her belt, Shafik quickly rose to become the youngest ever vice president of the World Bank. At the time, she was 36, and responsible for $50bn (30bn) of investments.

Shafik, now 51, served as a UK civil servant for three years, joining the Department for International Development as Permanent Secretary in 2008, before becoming the IMF's deputy managing director for Europe and the Middle East in 2011. She was also responsible for the Fund's $1bn administrative budget, and human resources for its 3,000 employees.

She is also is used to being in at the deep end. Barely a month after she joined the IMF, and in the middle of negotiations over a second Greek bail-out, she was asked to step in for former IMF boss Dominique Strauss Kahn at a key eurozone meeting, after he was arrested for sexual assault charges.

Of course, Shafik is not the first female to join the upper echelons of the Bank. Dame DeAnne Julius was one of the MPC's founding members, and Rachel Lomax, a former deputy governor, Marian Bell and Kate Barker have all served on the committee.

Charlotte Hogg - the Bank's chief operating officer - was appointed last year to be Carney's "eyes and ears" at the Bank.

However, Shafik is the first female MPC member for four years, and will be only the fifth woman out of 36 current or former members once Andy Haldane - currently the Bank¡¯s executive director for financial stability - joins.

But Shafik has proven she is no wallflower, and is more than capable of adapting to the demands of the job. Perhaps it will be her "superb leadership qualities" - identified by Ms Lagarde - that will one day put her in contention to be its first female governor.