After showing a notable move to the downside early in the session, stocks continue to see considerable weakness in mid-day trading on Wednesday. Concerns about the outlook for the Federal Reserve's stimulus program are weighing on the markets for the second straight day.

The major averages have moved roughly sideways in recent trading, stuck firmly in negative territory. The Dow is down 81.60 points or 0.5 percent at 15,437.14, the Nasdaq is down 26.82 points or 0.7 percent at 3,638.95 and the S&P 500 is down 10.30 points or 0.6 percent at 1,687.07.

The weakness on Wall Street comes as a lack of major U.S. economic data has led traders to continue to focus on yesterday's comments from two Fed officials.

Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart and Chicago Fed President Charles Evans both delivered remarks on Tuesday suggesting that the central bank will begin scaling back its bond purchases later this year, potentially as soon as the September meeting.

While the remarks should not have come as a surprise to anyone, the negative reaction in the markets reflects the continued jitters over the outlook for the program.

Later this afternoon, trading could be impacted by reaction to remarks from Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto.

Negative sentiment has also been generated in reaction to quarterly results from Disney (DIS), with the media giant falling by 2.5 percent on the day.

After the close of trading on Tuesday, Disney reported net income that was little changed year-over-year, although its adjusted earnings exceeded analyst estimates.

However, the company also reported weaker than expected quarterly sales and said it expects to record a loss of as much as $190 million on "The Lone Ranger" in the current quarter.

Shares of First Solar (FSLR) have also come under pressure after the solar company reported disappointing second quarter results and cut its full-year guidance.

On the other hand, media and entertainment giant Time Warner (TWX) is moving to the upside after boosting its full-year earnings forecast on better than expected second quarter results.

Trucking stocks are seeing substantial weakness in mid-day trading, with the Dow Jones Trucking Index tumbling by 2.9 percent. With the steep loss, the index is pulling back further off the record closing high it set last Thursday.

YRC Worldwide (YRCW) is leading the trucking sector lower, with the transportation services provider plunging by 15 percent after reporting a much wider than expected second quarter loss.

Significant weakness is also visible among housing stocks, which are adding to the steep losses posted in the previous session. The Philadelphia Housing Sector Index has fallen by 1.9 percent to its lowest intraday level in well over a month.

Electronic storage stocks have also come under considerable selling pressure, as reflected by the 1.3 percent drop by the NYSE Arca Disk Drive Index. The loss by the index comes after it ended the previous session at its best closing level in well over a year.

Banking, retail, and semiconductor stocks are also seeing notable weakness on the day, moving to the downside along with most of the other major sectors.

In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region moved mostly lower during trading on Wednesday. Japan's Nikkei 225 Index plummeted by 4 percent on the day, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index tumbled by 1.5 percent.

Meanwhile, the major European markets turned in a mixed performance on the day. While the French CAC 40 Index edged up by 0.2 percent, the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index dropped by 1.4 percent and the German DAX Index fell by 0.5 percent.

In the bond market, treasuries have moved modestly higher after ending the previous session roughly flat. Subsequently, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, is down by 2.3 basis points at 2.619 percent.