UPDATE: March 13, 2014 at 7:24 a.m. ET: Authorities went to the site where these satellite images were taken and found no sign of Malaysia Airlines flight 370.

Chinese State TV reports it has satellite images that may lead us to the missing Malaysia Airlines flight 370. The images are leading CNN's coverage of the hunt for Malaysia Airlines this evening.

However, after days of false leads and conflicting reports, we can't help but be skeptical.

The last round of satellite images that authorities had hoped would lead to debris of the jet turned out to be the mossy cap of a cable and a bundle of logs tied together with string.

Still, China's State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense has announced that its satellites "observed a suspected crash area at sea," which included the "three suspected floating objects and their sizes," according to CNN.

The debris was reportedly first spotted by satellites on Sunday morning, Malaysian time, but not reported until Wednesday. The images show the three suspected floating objects sized (in meters) 13x18, 14x19 and 24 x22. It falls near the area of last transmission, not far from the path the airliner had been traveling on while en route to Beijing.

If the images do in fact lead investigators to the debris of the missing jetliner, it would be a big win for the Chinese government. Beijing has grown frustrated with Malaysian authorities' lack of progress, and has expanded resources dedicated to finding the missing aircraft.

Beijing on Monday urged the Malaysian government to ¡°step up search efforts.¡±

¡°We have a responsibility to demand and urge the Malaysian side to step up search efforts, start an investigation as soon as possible and provide relevant information to China correctly and in a timely manner,¡± said Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang.

Chinese Weibo users also mocked the Malaysian government¡¯s recruitment of a shaman, who had said, "I think the plane is still in the air or has crashed into the sea.¡±

Two-thirds of the passengers were from China. Beijing had previously redeployed as many as 10 high-resolution satellites in the hunt for the missing Malaysian plane. The satellites, until today, had only identified three oil slicks.