HONG KONG-- China Telecom Corp. said 2013 net profit rose 17% as it added more high-value mobile customers.

The country's largest fixed-line operator by subscribers bought its mobile-service business in 2008 from China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. as part of a government-mandated restructuring of the telecommunications sector and has spent heavily on the business.

Analysts have said that China Telecom's profitability is expected to improve from 2013 as its efforts to attract high-spending users begin to pay off.

Net profit for the 12 months ended Dec. 31 rose to 17.55 billion yuan ($2.8 billion) from 14.95 billion yuan a year earlier. Revenue rose 14% to 321.58 billion yuan.

China's telecommunications carriers have focused on improving their networks to meet an increase in data traffic as more consumers replace basic cellphones with smartphones. China has already overtaken the U.S. as the world's biggest smartphone market and mobile-data demand is expected to rise.

China Unicom, another major Chinese carrier, reported last month a 47% increase in full-year earnings as smaller players continue to attract customers from market leader China Mobile Ltd.

China Mobile, the world's largest wireless carrier by subscribers, reports full-year earnings on Thursday and is expected to post a profit fall as it boosted network investments and handset subsidies to battle competition.

China Telecom and China Unicom will benefit from lower interconnection fees that they pay to China Mobile from the beginning of this year, as the government seeks to promote competition in the sector. Savings from lower interconnection fees will allow smaller carriers to fund network upgrades and marketing campaigns, allowing them to boost market share, analysts said.

China Mobile is the country's dominant mobile phone network carrier, with more than 770 million mobile subscribers and over 50% of domestic market share. China Telecom is the smallest of the country's three main mobile carriers.