Let¡¯s bite back on Oracle earnings coverage before it has the chance to bite us. Oracle, after all, reports its third quarter after the market closes on Tuesday, and you would be well advised to preemptively arch your brow at the media coverage that stands to follow.

On the most fundamental level, Wall Street is expecting Oracle ORCL, +0.44% to earn 67 cents on revenue of $9.36 billion, according to Zacks, up from 63 cents on sales of $8.96 billion.

Not too shabby, but not too great either. The four-decade-old hardware, software and server peddler is, at least now, on the wrong side of industry history, competing against a wide range of nimble cloud-computing outfits from Salesforce.com CRM, -1.65% to Workday WDAY, -2.09% all of whom are playing for keeps. Oracle¡¯s prospects for organic growth in this all-important and still-unformed sector is at best (and apologies ahead of time for the groaner) cloudy.

That¡¯s why a problem may arise if Oracle manages to beat earnings by a penny or two in their third quarter, as they might. Look at what happened in response to Oracle¡¯s second quarter. Even after pulling up short over the three previous quarters, Oracle touched their toe past expectations, and the media declared the company¡¯s groove all but back. Trumpeted Forbes, ¡°Smoother Sailing For Oracle.¡±

Stay cautious for more of the same today, which might cause the stock to get ahead of itself. Pronouncing a lumbering, rusty company back and better than ever after what amounts to little more than a technical beat can be a dangerous game.

That is because in the real world, of course, pennies do little more than weigh down coat jackets or line the bottom of sock drawers. But for the media, a penny takes on outsized importance.

Never mind that a company beating expectations often symbolizes little more than the fact that management did a commendable job of gaming expectations, guiding low so they can come in high. For a company ¡ª like Oracle, The New York Times NYT, +0.87% or even Apple AAPL, +1.52% for that matter ¡ª trying to adjust to the stark new realities of their respective marketplaces, a penny often symbolizes nothing more than a strategic pairing down of the workforce or cutback in research or a more favorable tax rate or currency rate or one in a million other factors more cosmetic than substantive.

Granted: Oracle is a great company, even if it¡¯s CEO is skipping out on the occasional earnings conference call these days to watch his America¡¯s Cup boat sail. Moreover, their cloud business sales were up 35% in the second quarter, which is, to a degree, substantive. In true form, though, the media got all jiggy with this ¡ª as they might today. The Wall Street Journal even celebrated with an uncharacteristically p-unny headline: ¡°Oracle: We¡¯re Cloudier Than You Think¡±

The operative point is that Oracle¡¯s cloud business is presumably up over a very small base and the company doesn¡¯t even break out cloud revenues, which means at this point, who even knows? Pegging too much on such an ill-defined measure of progress is, well, clouded thought.

But beware another bad roll of clouds. Rather than holding a bias to the left or right, the business media tend to hold a bias toward a new story line. They love to declare a permanent shift in fortunes because that instantly transforms a standard just-the-facts-ma¡¯am earnings story into a piece of greater import. That¡¯s why the media go on such frequent goose chases for larger meaning.

Media coverage is not improvisational. It tends to run the same course each time. And we¡¯ve seen this one before. If Oracle reports earnings that edge expectations, don¡¯t believe the hype or triumphant coverage. For a company in a troubled industry, in the early stages of facing up to a host of secular challenges, one ¡ª or even two ¡ª quarter¡¯s penny beat gives credence to nothing.

What we stand to hear on Oracle is not the truth. It¡¯s just a tale told by the media, signifying nothing.

Marek Fuchs was a stockbroker for Shearson Lehman Brothers before becoming a journalist who wrote The New York Times¡¯ ¡°County Lines¡± column for six years. Fuchs speaks regularly on business and journalism issues. He is the author of ¡°A Cold-Blooded Business¡± and ¡°Local Heroes: Portraits of American Volunteer Firefighters.¡± Fuchs is on the writing faculty at Sarah Lawrence College and serves as a volunteer fire fighter. Follow him onTwitter.