What would you get if you combined your income tax filing with the health history form you fill out at your doctor¡¯s office?

While improvements in the federal website have made the enrollment process smoother, it could never be called ¡°easy.¡± That¡¯s because it asks for lots of personal and financial data at the same time it requires decisions about health care.

Is it more important to save money or have access to the doctor you¡¯ve been seeing for years? Would you rather pay more in monthly premiums for a policy that had lower co-pays, or have lower premiums and higher co-pays? And looking into that crystal ball you brought along just in case, how much do you think you¡¯ll make this year?

With just 12 days left to buy private health insurance through the federal website, the easiest way to get through the process may be to have someone guide you through the journey.

Those people have a name ¡ª ¡°navigators¡± ¡ª and they¡¯re scattered around the state, ready to help.

One way to find them is to click the ¡°Find Local Help¡± button on HealthCare.gov. By typing in your ZIP code, you can see what groups and institutions have federal grants to provide help.

Another route would be to call your local hospital. Many are offering enrollment guidance themselves, or know where to find such help nearby. Check njha.com/reform to see a list of sign-up sessions scheduled between now and March 31, the deadline to purchase private insurance through the federal exchange.

There are two enrollment offices in the northern part of the state that work directly with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. If you have a complicated set of circumstances, it may be worth the ride to consult them. The Edison enrollment assistance center is at 1719 State Route 27, Festival Plaza, (732-484-9710). The Wayne center is at 1211 Hamburg Turnpike, Suite 301, (201-414-0465).

Both centers are open seven days a week.

Another option is to consult a local insurance broker who handles health insurance. While agents typically handle small business accounts, they can handle individuals as well, said David Oscar, a spokesman for the New Jersey Association of Health Underwriters. Their help is free to clients; agents ultimately get paid by the insurance carrier for sending business its way.

You can locate a nearby agent at njahu.org.

Even with the help of a trained professional, the experts say to plan on spending at least 90 minutes on the process ¡ª longer if you¡¯re enrolling on behalf of a large family.

The most difficult part may be ¡°reading the questions thoroughly and not reading them too fast,¡± said Oscar. Some of the questions are silly, he said, such as the one asking about the pregnancy status of all females in the household, including infants.

That¡¯s why it helps to gather all the information you need before you apply, whether that application is by phone (800-318-2596), computer (HealthCare.gov), or face-to-face:
 Not just your Social Security number, but the numbers of everyone you¡¯re signing up for, including small children. (You don¡¯t need proof of your Social Security number; you just need to know what it is.)
 If you are a permanent resident, bring your green card.
 If you are switching from a policy you have but don¡¯t like, bring that policy number and company name.
 Something that helps document your income, whether it¡¯s your taxes for last year, or better yet, recent pay stubs. You will be required to state your best guess for what you¡¯ll earn in 2014, and the more accurate your prediction, the better, say tax advisers.