This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... in mm mm ... welcome to MoneyBeat I'm Steve Russolillo filling in for Paul vignette ... King Digital Entertainment which makes the wildly popular Candy Crush Saga game is seeking a seven point six billion dollar market value in its IPO ... King is aiming to sell twenty two point two million shares at a price range of twenty one to twenty four dollars ... David Menlow president of IPO Financial dot com ... joins MoneyBeat with his analysis David thank you so much for being here ... Frigidaire says ... write to David you what's your initial reaction out so the numbers that we got this morning ... what some what it's like chromatic see because everybody was expecting that came was going to step forward and try to get into the public markets ... the real interesting point about doing so well being the first into the marketplace who really is an axiom for it you get the largest market share so they will be ahead of a lot of people in this particular market ... what's your overall take of the company hear me got a lot of metrics of this morning about the company's growth and whatnot ... I you what what should take right now ... well my take is very simply that this is a one trick pony the situation this is candy crush ... I guess the most addictive game that has come out of a long time ... and people are thinking about love the candy crush the competition what glory on this is the ... source of conversation at the couple's gathering ... of what the fact the matter is if they are unable to come up with other games have even ... close to the kind of appeal ... my illustration of the one trick pony could be of very cataclysmic situation for the ... economics of the company and we're seeing some of them at six Year hundred forty four million average daily active users ... I you know over one point four billion games played today ... you know ... who say when you will about these numbers here but but but this company is also going public in a very hot IPO market rate now tell Slavov about that ... write to the IPO market for the social media the type of ... deliver this year is very strong ... as you said probably very hard at this point ... people will be clamoring for this particular offering because the company is showing ... thirty percent ... of bottom line margins at the nets are are are ... incredible number for companies such as this ... so it's unrealistic to think that the stock is going to come ... anywhere near the twenty one to twenty four dollar initial range that's their ... demand is going to be extraordinarily large we could see this thing ... probably have a fifty percent increase what actually goes to the marketplace ... however ... if you look at the rest of the IPO market were not in this bull will wear anything that's of IPO as ... is often the reasons ... is that when the social media sites were not a bubble level with this particular point what ... anybody getting into these markets has to keep one eye on next door ... to great when we're looking here are some comparisons I especially when you look at the Discovery's valuation ... if you know the numbers that came ahead of rivals and obviously thing that has been ... on a story that people have all very very closely here what's the difference between Cain and saying to what is king do their thing it doesn't do ... and is king or do we better position than saying it's ... all but six is a good is always going to have the burden of being ... in the public market because of its attachment with Facebook eventually ... you take a look at King King is a stand alone this banner with our arms folded say ... we did this on Iran we didn't need any help from any other entity ... so there's always going to be that separation BBH between the two animal but the comparisons ... are going to actually be on level ground ... David Menlow always a pleasure thank you so much for joining us ... thank you ...