Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba has announced plans for a flotation in the U.S. The aim is to extend the global reach of the tech company. is a privately owned Hangzhou-based group of Internet-based e-commerce businesses including business-to-business online web portals, online retail and payment services, a shopping search engine and data-centric cloud computing services. In 2012, two of Alibaba¡¯s portals together handled 1.1 trillion yuan ($170 billion) in sales, more than competitors eBay and Amazon.com combined. According to the The company predicts that the listing will raise up to $15 billion. However, it has to be revealed when the initial public offering (IPO) would take place or on which exchange. The news comes two days after another Chinese tech giant, Twitter-like service Weibo, announced plans, reported by the is a privately owned Hangzhou-based group of Internet-based e-commerce businesses including business-to-business online web portals, online retail and payment services, a shopping search engine and data-centric cloud computing services. In 2012, two of Alibaba¡¯s portals together handled 1.1 trillion yuan ($170 billion) in sales, more than competitors eBay and Amazon.com combined.According to the Alibaba is a privately owned Hangzhou-based group of Internet-based e-commerce businesses including business-to-business online web portals, online retail and payment services, a shopping search engine and data-centric cloud computing services. In 2012, two of Alibaba¡¯s portals together handled 1.1 trillion yuan ($170 billion) in sales, more than competitors eBay and Amazon.com combined.According to the Wall Street Journal , the company is planning for a flotation in the U.S., saying the move will make it "a more global company".The company predicts that the listing will raise up to $15 billion. However, it has to be revealed when the initial public offering (IPO) would take place or on which exchange.The news comes two days after another Chinese tech giant, Twitter-like service Weibo, announced plans, reported by the BBC , for a $500m U.S. listing.