Shares of security software vendor Symantec (SYMC) have been halted pending a news announcement.

Update: The company has announced CEO Steve Bennett has been terminated, effective immediately, and that he is being replaced by board member Michael Brown, a veteran of Quantum, as interim CEO. Bennett also resigned from the board of directors.

We recognize Steve's contributions to Symantec, including developing and leading a series of successful initiatives focused on organizational realignment, cost reduction and process effectiveness. These changes have helped establish a solid foundation for Symantec's future, and we remain committed to our previously announced greater-than 5% organic revenue growth and better-than 30% non-GAAP operating margin targets by FY17. Our priority is now to identify a leader who can leverage our company's assets and leadership team to drive the next stage of Symantec's product innovation and growth. This considered decision was the result of an ongoing deliberative process, and not precipitated by any event or impropriety.

The company re-affirmed a forecast for revenue this quarter of $1.62 billion to $1.66 billion, and EPS of 40 cents to 42 cents, previously offered in late January.

Symantec stock is indicated by Nasdaq to resume trading at 4:20 pm, Eastern time.

Update: The stock has resumed trading and is down $2.03, or almost 10%, at $18.85.

Update 2: Symantec's most recent quarterly report was back on January 29th, at which time the company had beaten fiscal Q3 expectations, but offered a lower-than-expected Q1 revenue forecast.

The company has beaten revenue expectations six of the last eight quarters, and beaten EPS expectations 7 of those quarters, often by a wide margin, according to FactSet.

Bennett had been appointed CEO in July of 2012 after joining the board of directors in 2010. Prior to Symantec, he had been CEO at Intuit (INTU) for eight years, and had a long career at General Electric prior to that.

Shares have regained a little ground and are no down $1.25, or 6%, at $19.65.