Russia¡¯s invasion of Ukraine has given a boost to those calling for the United States to expedite natural gas exports to help allies overseas. In this thinking, American gas exports ¡ª in the form of liquefied natural gas, or LNG ¡ª are not only a boon to the domestic economy but also a potent geopolitical tool to be wielded against the Kremlin.

Never mind that the United States won¡¯t have its first LNG export terminal in operation until late 2015 at the very earliest; that all of its approved gas exports are already committed to long-term contracts; and that Ukraine does not even have a single terminal for receiving LNG.

Even without the newly concocted geopolitical rationale for exports, though, Washington seems favorably disposed to permitting much of America¡¯s surplus gas to migrate overseas. Since the beginning of the shale gas revolution, which kicked off in 2005 , the U.S. Department of Energy has approved six LNG export terminals with a combined export capacity of 8.5 billion cubic feet a day, and more projects are in the works.

But before we put more of our gas in the service of our foreign policy, be it saving Europe from Russia¡¯s claws or Asia from its toxic air, we should ask ourselves one question: Why aren¡¯t we using more gas in our cars and trucks?

Most of America¡¯s newly cheap gas finds its way to the electricity sector, where it displaces coal as a fuel source. Coal¡¯s share of total electricity generation declined from 51 percent 10 years ago to 40 percent today; that percentage will continue to drop as the Obama administration persists in its effective ban on new coal-fired power plants. The shift from coal to gas has brought a 10 percent decline in U.S. greenhouse gas emissions from power plants since 2010, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, negating the political pressure for costly carbon cap-and-trade schemes. The shale gas industry also has created more than 600,000 jobs, stimulated economic growth and reduced consumer costs of products derived from natural gas, such as plastics, household chemicals and the fertilizers that make our food. But all these benefits pale in comparison to what could be achieved if the gas replaced oil instead of coal.

First, a little math. The best way to compare energy sources is to look at their cost per unit of heat, measured in British thermal units. The spot price of 1 million BTUs, expressed as mmbtu, derived from natural gas is about $4.30. The price of U.S. coal is more or less the same. At current oil prices, the price of 1 mmbtu derived from oil is roughly $17. That means that from a pure economic standpoint, the upside of replacing coal with natural gas is zero, while that of replacing oil with natural gas is $12.7 per mmbtu. Put differently, at current prices, the 3.5 trillion cubic feet of gas that the Energy Information Administration assumes the United States will be exporting annually starting next decade is valued at $15 billion. If this amount of gas stayed in the United States and were used to power cars and trucks, it would have displaced, depending on the technology, 3 million to 4 million barrels of oil a day, eliminating oil imports at the cost of $100 billion to $150 billion a year. Instead, the United States will be exporting this $15 billion worth of energy only to import an equivalent amount of energy at up to 10 times the cost. Does that make any sense?

The reason for this economic malpractice is that our transportation sector is wedded to oil. Natural gas landed in the power sector not necessarily because electricity is the most economic use of the commodity but because our grid and electric appliances are indifferent about the source of energy that goes into making the electrons they use. For a light bulb or coffee machine, electrons made from coal, gas, nuclear or solar are all the same.

Cars are a different story. They do care what source of energy goes into their tank because for the most part they are warrantied to run on nothing but petroleum fuels. This means that no matter how cheap and plentiful natural gas becomes, its pathway to our vehicles is blocked.

Although there are some efforts to increase the use of natural gas as an automotive fuel, they are limited to heavy-duty trucks and buses, and therefore will not get us close to capturing the full economic opportunity offered by the shale gas revolution. Consider this: On our current trajectory, according to the Energy Information Administration, the increased use of compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas in vehicles will offset only 3 percent of petroleum consumption in the transportation sector in 2040. This is a profoundly disappointing figure. If the natural gas bonanza is to benefit every American, it must penetrate the light-duty sector, where 60 percent of our transportation fuel is used.

One way of doing so is to reduce the cost of converting a light-duty gasoline car to CNG. Right now, that process comes out to roughly $10,000 per light-duty vehicle, more than three times the average price tag in other parts of the world. By streamlining the onerous regulatory requirements consumers are currently facing, the EPA could make this option widely available.

Another option is to turn the gas into gasoline and diesel in a process called gas-to-liquids. But for a GTL plant to make money, a barrel of oil has to cost about 16 times more than natural gas. That ratio is too high to expect over the long run, which is why Royal Dutch Shell recently abandoned its $20 billion GTL project in Louisiana.

A more fiscally prudent way of using natural gas in transportation is to open light-duty vehicles to run on a liquid fuel called methanol. This high-octane alcohol can be blended into gasoline, much in the way ethanol is blended. Properly adjusted ¡°flexible fuel¡± vehicles, which cost automakers a $100 or so more to manufacture than gasoline-only cars, allow drivers to choose whether to run on methanol, gasoline or some combination of the fuels. If Congress provided automakers with the right incentives, within five years, a substantial part of America¡¯s fleet would be capable of running on natural-gas-derived methanol ¡ª at no additional cost to taxpayers.

To be sure, in the coming years there will be times when natural gas prices inch up while oil prices decline, but it is highly unlikely that oil will ever become cheaper than natural gas per unit of energy. The arbitrage opportunity in shifting from oil to gas in the transportation sector is too appealing to let go. But as long as our cars are locked to gasoline, America¡¯s natural gas will go to fuel power plants in Asia and Europe instead of cars at home. And while the sellers of the gas may be indifferent as to where it ends up, for Americans as a whole, this amounts to a scandalous waste of an opportunity.