Wal-Mart store signage is seen from the store lot on April 23, 2012 in Mexico City, Mexico.(Photo by Daniel Aguilar/Getty Images) (Photo by Daniel Aguilar/Getty Images)

MIAMI (CBSMiami/AP) ¨C In the coming months you may be able to trade in your used video games at your local Walmart.

For the first time, the world¡¯s largest retailer will be accepting thousands of video games at their brick and mortar stores in exchange for store credit which can be used in both Walmart and Sam¡¯s Club stores.

It will also offer refurbished used games in its stores for the first time.

Retailers from Amazon to Best Buy also offer used video trade in programs. Walmart¡¯s new program is the biggest threat to GameStop, which has the largest and most well-established video game trade-in program.

GameStop shares fell $1.84, or 4.6 percent, to $37.89 in morning trading. The stock had been down 19 percent since the beginning of the year.

But one analyst said the new program isn¡¯t necessarily a death knell for GameStop. Other retailers have tried to take business in the used game market with ¡°modest¡± success, said Baird Equity Research analyst Colin Sebastian. In contrast, GameStop has consolidated its market share of video game retail sales and has loyalty among video game customers and a broad inventory of new and used video games.

Walmart has been seeking new ways to boost revenue as its low-income customers remain under pressure due to a weak jobs picture and shaky economy. In its most recent fourth quarter, net income dropped 21 percent.

¡°Gaming continues to be an important business for us and we¡¯re actively taking aim at the $2 billion pre-owned video game opportunity,¡± said Duncan Mac Naughton, chief merchandising and marketing officer for Walmart U.S.

The value for each trade-in video game will vary by the title, console and age of the game. The amount will range from just a few dollars for older games to $35 and more for newer ones. Credit offered for video games can be used on anything from groceries to a new bike, rather than just other video games.