Yoshikazu Tsuno | AFP | Getty Images. Asian stocks mostly advanced on Thursday, encouraged by a stronger finish on Wall Street following the Fed's decision to leave interest rates near zero.

Asian stocks mostly surrendered early gains to slip into the red on Thursday, after the Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged but signaled that a December rate hike was still on the table.

"The market, economists, commentators and the man on the street has combed over all aspects of the Fed statement, and it seems all have concluded that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will follow through with its commitment to raise rates at the December meeting. It's really the only conclusion you can draw from an almost nonchalant statement," IG's market strategist Evan Lucas wrote in a note.



A positive handover from Wall Street did little to help sentiment. Major U.S. averages surged more than 1 percent overnight, with the Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) leading gains, closing up 1.3 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (Dow Jones Global Indexes: .DJI) and S&P 500 (CME:Index and Options Market: .INX) rose 1.1 and 1.2 percent respectively.

Japan's Nikkei 225 (Nihon Kenzai Shinbun: .N225) index turned negative amid choppy trade, as upbeat factory output data indicated diminishing chances for further easing from the Bank of Japan (BOJ) at Friday's policy meeting.

Industrial production rose 1.0 percent on-month in September, official data showed early Thursday, beating expectations for a 0.5 percent drop.

"Now that the Fed hints a December hike and Japan's economic data was strong, there are growing views that the BOJ may stand pat tomorrow," Yoshihiro Okumura, an analyst at Chibagin Asset Management, told Reuters.

Securities firms were among the biggest losers on Thursday, following weaker-than-expected profits for the third quarter. Nomura Holdings (Tokyo Stock Exchange: 8604.T-JP) and Daiwa Securities (Tokyo Stock Exchange: 8601.T-JP) plunged 4.7 and 3.8 percent respectively.

Nintendo (Tokyo Stock Exchange: 7974.T-JP) skidded 10.5 percent after the game maker pushed back the much-awaited launch of its videogame service for smartphones by a few months to March 2016.

Machinery stocks bucked the downtrend; machine tool builder Okuma (Tokyo Stock Exchange: 6103.T-JP) topped the leaderboard with a rise of 8.4 percent, after it raised its profit outlook for the year ending March and hiked dividend payouts. Komatsu (Tokyo Stock Exchange: 6301.T-JP) advanced 1.1 percent.

South Korea's Kospi (Korea Stock Exchange: .KS11) index reversed direction to head south, as the bourse's heaviest-weighted stock Samsung Electronics (Korea Stock Exchange: 593-KR) trimmed gains to 1.8 percent by mid-day.

Earlier in the session, shares of the tech giant surged as much as 6.4 percent to 1,392,000 won (Exchange:KRW=) - its highest since May 4 - after announcing its first year-on-year profit gain in eight quarters , alongside plans to buy back 11.3 trillion won of its own shares.

Most tech counters got a boost from the rally in Samsung shares; LG Display (Korea Stock Exchange: 3422-KR) and Naver (Korea Stock Exchange: 3542-KR) advanced more than 2 percent each, but LG Electronics (Korea Stock Exchange: 6657-KR) gave up early gains to tank 1.9 percent ahead of its quarterly results.

Share markets in China had a listless morning session, with the key Shanghai Composite (Shanghai Stock Exchange: .SSEC) ticking up 0.1 percent before heading to a lunch break.

Among other indexes, the blue-chip CSI300 was little changed, while the Shenzhen Composite erased a near 1 percent gain to trade almost flat.

In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng (Hong Kong Stock Exchange: .HSI) index slipped 0.3 percent to a one-week low.

GOME Electrical Appliances (Hong Kong Stock Exchange: 493-HK) outperformed, up 5.3 percent, after the retailer said it will be buying 578 stores from its controlling shareholder at a discount of 20 percent.

Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ASX:ANZ-AU) (ANZ) widened losses to 1.3 percent, reversing a brief higher open, as the lender posted its lowest annual profit growth since the global financial crisis.



Woolworths (ASX:WOW-AU) shares tumbled nearly 10 percent after the grocery chain said that weaker petrol prices took a toll on its first-quarter sales, while warning that first-half net profit will fall by up to a third as it embarks on a restructuring.