Malaysia Airlines MH370: 122 new objects spotted in search for debris

New satellite images have revealed 122 objects in the southern Indian Ocean that could be debris from Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, Malaysia's acting transport minister has announced.

The latest images come as searchers step up efforts to find some trace of the flight, which had 239 passengers and crew on board, including six Australians.

It is thought to have crashed on March 8 after flying thousands of kilometres off course.

"It must be emphasised that we cannot tell whether the potential objects are from MH370," Hishammuddin Hussein told a media conference.

"Nevertheless, this is another new lead that will help direct the search operation."

The images were captured by France-based Airbus Defence and Space on Sunday and showed 122 potential objects in a 400-square-kilometre area of ocean, Mr Hishammuddin said.

The objects varied in size from 1 metre to 23 metres in length, he said.

Mr Hishammuddin said the images were passed on to Australian authorities in Perth.

"We have now had four separate satellite leads from Australia, from China and France, showing possible debris," he said.

"It is now imperative that we link the debris to MH370.

"This will enable us to further reduce the search area and locate more debris from the plane."

The Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA), which is coordinating the search, said in a statement this morning that the positions in the latest satellite information were within the search zone, 2,500km south-west of Perth.

"The crash zone is as close to nowhere as it's possible to be but it's closer to Australia than anywhere else," Prime Minister Tony Abbott said, before leading Federal Parliament in a moment's silence.

"A considerable amount of debris has been sighted in the area where the flight was last recorded.

"Bad weather and inaccessibility has so far prevented any of it from being recovered.

"But we are confident that it will be."

Mr Hishammuddin paid tribute to Mr Abbott and Australia's efforts in leading the search.

"I would like to convey our appreciation to the Australian authorities, in particular to Prime Minister Tony Abbott, for making such an extraordinary contribution to this search operation," Mr Hishammuddin said.

AMSA said three objects were spotted in the ocean by two aircraft yesterday, but the objects were not able to be relocated despite several passes.

Two of the objects were reported to have looked like rope, while the third appeared to be blue.

AMSA said the objects were unrelated to the "credible satellite imagery" already provided to it.

Six military aircraft, five civil aircraft and five ships are involved in today's search, but weather conditions are expected to again deteriorate.

Rain and isolated thunderstorms are forecast across the southern Indian Ocean corridor, with a low and associated trough expected to bring winds of up to 30 knots in the search zone.

Weather bureau senior forecaster Matt Boterhoven says he expects conditions to improve "significantly" on Friday.

Queensland couples Robert and Catherine Lawton and Rodney and Mary Burrows, along with Gu Naijun and Li Yuan from New South Wales, are presumed to have been killed when the plane crashed.

New Zealander Paul Weeks, who lived in Perth, was also on the flight.

Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak this week confirmed the plane, which vanished while flying to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, had crashed into the southern Indian Ocean.

Citing satellite-data analysis by British company Inmarsat, he said there was no doubt the Boeing 777 came down in one of the most remote places on Earth - an implicit admission that everyone on board had died.

Recovery of wreckage could unlock clues as to why and how the plane was diverted so far off course in one of aviation's most puzzling mysteries.

Theories range from a hijacking to sabotage or a possible suicide by one of the pilots, but investigators have not ruled out technical problems.

The US has sent equipment to Perth to help locate the so-called black box that recorded the flight's data, as well as the final two hours of chatter in the cockpit.

Time is running out to find the bright orange-coloured box, which emits a ping in water that can be picked up from a depth of just over 4km.

The batteries powering the underwater ping only last 30 days and are due to run out on April 7.

Australia, China and France have all released satellite images over the past week showing possible debris in the same general area as the latest sighting, but no confirmed wreckage has been located.

Meanwhile, aviation disaster compensation lawyers say Malaysia Airlines' treatment of the families of passengers may increase the likelihood of legal action against the airline, which could reach many hundreds of millions of dollars.

Malaysia Airlines officials have defended the use of an SMS to break the news to passengers' relatives that they had concluded the plane was lost at sea.

But angry families are demanding answers, with some marching on the Malaysian embassy in Beijing in protest on Tuesday.