MORE debris has been spotted in the hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

The French images show more objects in the southern corridor, a huge stretch of ocean towards Antarctica. This covers the path the plane could have taken if it headed south but it is not known how close to the other sightings ¨C by Australia and Chine ¨C the latest objects are. The Malaysian Transport Ministry said in a statement today: "This morning, Malaysia received new satellite images from the French authorities showing potential objects in the vicinity of the southern corridor. "Malaysia immediately relayed these images to the Australian rescue co-ordination centre."

This is the third promising discovery as the international search enters its third week. Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein was yesterday given a hand written note in the middle of his daily press briefing. China spotted the 74ft by 42ft piece of debris via satellite images. It was 75 miles south west of an earlier sighting by Australia. Six aircraft had already covered 13,900 square miles of ocean south west of Perth in Australia in the hunt for the plane. Investigators are also looking into claims that the captain of the missing flight, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, received a two-minute long call from a mystery woman shortly before take-off. Suspicions have been raised because the call was made from a Pay as You Go SIM card obtained recently under a false identity.

There are fears that the discovery backs up claims Captain Zaharie, 53, had possible links to terror groups, who frequently use untraceable SIM cards to avoid detection. It has been claimed he is a supporter of Malaysian opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim, who was jailed for five years in a controversial court hearing which took place just hours before the missing flight departed. The Boeing 777 left Kuala Lumpur at 12.40am on March 8 and went missing half an hour into the fight to Beijing. It disappeared off military radar altogether at 2.15am. Authorities also face a race against time to locate the plane's black box voice and data recorder, which transmits an electronic signal for just 30 days before running out of battery. The family of the 239 people on the aircraft are frustrated with the lack of information they are receiving.

Angry scenes took place during a briefing earlier this week when two Chinese relatives staged a protest in front of journalists. They were escorted from the building and the authorities refused to let them talk to reporters. One shouted: "You can't go. You can't leave here. We are here waiting for you 14 days. We want to know what happened, what the reality is." Another said: "We don't even know if our family members are alive or dead. We should never let them treat us like this!"