
 Fed cuts tapering by USD 10bn to USD 55bn
 Unemployment threshold rate of 6.5% jettisoned
 EURUSD relatively stable in FOMC aftermath

The first meeting of the Federal Reserve¡¯s Open Market Committee (FOMC) with the new chairwoman, Janet Yellen, concluded yesterday. At 18:00 GMT the statement was released, together with updated economic projections, and at 18:30 GMT Yellen faced journalists in the press conference.

The FOMC decided to continue tapering its monthly-asset purchases. Beginning from April, the monthly purchases will be lowered by USD 10 billion to USD 55 billion. The Fed has indicated for a while and many times that it will stop the asset purchases before the year is over, and that the aim is to decrease the purchases at every FOMC meeting by the same amount.

Since December 2012, the forward guidance has pledged that rates would remain low as long as inflation is at 2.5 percent or less and as long as the unemployment rate is above 6.5 percent. As the unemployment rate hit a low of 6.6 percent last January, the guidance was hardly relevant. The Fed knows very well that the low unemployment rate paints a rather optimistic view of the labour market. Participation rate remains historically low and the number of people working part-time jobs for economic reasons is high, so the economy is far from full employment, or levels where the employment would cause inflationary pressures.

Instead of presenting new quantitative thresholds, the Fed stated that it will weigh ¡®wide range of information¡¯. This is actually the same as having no forward guidance at all. While this move toward traditional qualitative guidance was expected, it also makes analysts¡¯ work harder as now they will have to estimate the economic variables and the Fed¡¯s interpretation of those variables.

Without any concrete guidance, analysts looked at the economic projections and noticed that the majority of the FOMC saw the Federal funds rate reaching one percent by the end of 2015. Yellen tried to belittle the dot chart¡¯s importance and that economist¡¯s should concentrate on the FOMC statement for guidance. As the statement said that rates would remain low for a ¡°considerable time¡± after asset purchases end, Yellen answered that it would ¡°probably mean¡± around six months. Tapering is planned to be complete by the end of 2014, so the expected time frame is pretty clear.

The initial reaction was that the FOMC was more hawkish than expected. The chart, which I bravely posted before the event, shows that EURUSD has for the past year tended to fall after the FOMC, as expectations of ¡°monetary candy¡± have built up, but the Fed has not delivered. This is again quite a similar situation. The end result was pretty much what was expected, but the dot plot and the lack of concrete guidance have led to a deflation of those ballooned hopes. After a while, markets will begin concentrating on the lack of concrete guidance, and then hopes will begin building up again.

The next key event will be the European Central Bank¡¯s meeting on April 4, and as the same chart shows, the ECB-days have often been followed by a surging EURUSD. That has been the story of the EURUSD for some time now grinding slowly higher, but at the same time oscillating between Fed-highs and ECB-lows. Should the EURUSD remain bearish until the ECB-meeting, a visit lower towards channel bottoms could be on the cards. Short-term, the pair is sitting at the major support level of 1.3820, the highs from last October and December, and could see a bounce to perhaps 1.3850 or so.

The futures market prices the first 25bps rate hike to happen in September 2015. The ten-year Treasury note yields rose from pre-FOMC 2.67 percent to a high of 2.792 percent. The bond yield has been trading in a range between 2.6 and roughly 2.8 percent since the beginning of February, and sooner or later could make another attempt toward the 3 percent-highs seen last December. EURUSD fell from 1.3920 to 1.3850-levels following the publication of the statement, and as Yellen¡¯s press conference begun, the pair begun grinding lower hitting a low of 1.3810.

How the statement changed by The Wall Street Journal