Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will start buying used video games from customers next week, setting its sights on a business perfected by Grapevine-based GameStop Corp.

Chief merchandising and marketing officer Duncan Mac Naughton said Wal-Mart wants to pay more for used games than any other buyer.

Beginning March 26, customers at 3,100 stores will be able to trade in video games played on Xbox, PlayStation and Nintendo consoles. The credit can be applied immediately toward the purchase of anything sold at Wal-Mart and Sam¡¯s Club, both in stores and online.

Video games will be refurbished and sent back to stores in new packaging and sold as used games. Wal-Mart expects to start selling used games sometime this summer, depending on the inventory it collects, Mac Naughton said.

GameStop has dominated the used video game business for 15 years, and returned $1 billion in trade credits to its customers last year.

¡°We have faced many competitors in the past who have tried to enter into the buy-sell-trade model, and GameStop has continued to come out on top,¡± GameStop said in a prepared statement. ¡°Given our expertise, we will continue to win the battles. We¡¯ve beat out other large retailers when they¡¯ve entered the category. We are confident we will continue to do so.¡±

Used games still represent about 30 percent of GameStop¡¯s annual sales and about 40 percent of its profits.

Many other retailers exited or downplayed the video game segment because the industry seemed to be moving rapidly toward digital gaming. GameStop built up its digital business, strengthened its used business and amassed 30 million PowerUp reward program members.

Successful launches of the new Xbox One and PlayStation 4 during the holiday shopping season signaled that gamers still aren¡¯t willing to give up their hardware and software.

GameStop promoted its buyback program during the launch of the pricey new consoles. Trade-ins allowed customers to get a break on the consoles, which cost $500 and $400 and weren¡¯t being discounted.

Best Buy also buys used games.

Wal-Mart is trying to build up its used business now because the Xbox One and PS4 are expected to have strong sales over the next couple of years.

¡°Gaming continues to be an important business for us, and we¡¯re actively taking aim at the $2 billion preowned video game opportunity,¡± Mac Naughton said. ¡°When we disrupt markets and compete, our customer wins. They¡¯ll save money on video games and have the flexibility to spend it however they want.¡±

There are almost 1 billion games sitting around in homes, and 8 out of 10 are not being played, said Laura Phillips, senior vice president of entertainment for Wal-Mart U.S. ¡°Customers are sitting on cash they can use at Wal-Mart,¡± Phillips said.

Wal-Mart recently entered the used-merchandise business, selling everything from refurbished TVs to smartphones.