Florida¡¯s unemployment rate dropped to 6.1 percent in January, continuing to tick down even as employment shrank by 2,600 jobs, the Department of Economic Opportunity reported Monday.

Once again, government job loss accounted for the decline, while the private sector showed a minuscule increase of 700 jobs. However, the labor force grew in January, so the falling unemployment rate was not due to a contraction of those looking for work.

Economist Sean Snaith, who most recently has been a voice of caution, said Monday he was encouraged by 2013 revisions that showed the state economy added jobs at the fastest pace since the end of the recession ¡ª 2.6 percent.

"Rapid job growth will serve as a beacon calling workers back into the labor force, and this will make the prospect of further reducing the unemployment rate a more difficult task going forward," Snaith said in an emailed analysis.

"In fact, we could see unemployment rates rise in the months ahead, but if this is accompanied by continued payroll job growth, the uptick in unemployment rate will be a sign of a deepening labor market recovery."

Still, the January figures showed a slowing to start the year, economist Mekael Teshome of the PNC Financial Services Group said. But the usually upbeat analyst said he predicts a stronger 2014.

"We¡¯re closing the gap from our prerecession peak unemployment," he said. "The trajectory is there. It¡¯s positive."

In January, the unemployment rate in Palm Beach County rose 0.3 percentage points to 6.3 percent, Martin County bumped up 0.2 to 6.6 percent and St. Lucie rose from 7.8 percent to 8.2 percent, the DEO report showed. Those rates should not be compared directly to state overall figures, as they do reflect seasonal adjustments.

During the recovery from the Great Recession, which ended in June 2009, the economy has taken a halting path toward full employment ¡ª and it¡¯s not there yet.

Economists generally consider 5 percent to 5.5 percent to be a healthy number. And the majority of jobs have been created in lower-paying industries, many that rely on part-time workers, while wages have stagnated even for those who remained employed.

Jeranius Sylvestre of West Palm Beach is experiencing the contradiction as he searches for a job ¡ª again. This time he has a newly finished bachelor¡¯s degree in management.

"It seems to be getting better" as he listens to the news, Sylvestre said. "But it doesn¡¯t really feel like that."

Teshome said that¡¯s because wages have improved little as businesses have so many unemployed and underemployed to turn to for hiring. That puts little pressure to raise salaries.

Sylvestre said he often looks for two jobs at a time, because it¡¯s hard to find one that covers the bills. He may move out of state. "There are opportunities out there, but it¡¯s on the extreme low end of the scale."

The unemployment rate has fallen more sharply than the job market suggests, Teshome said, as many people have given up and quit looking. Only those people who have looked for a job in the previous four weeks are counted. The early retired, part-timers who want full-time work or discouraged young people are not included.

But it is getting better, Teshome said: "We still have pretty healthy growth in South Florida."

Steve Craig, president and CEO of CareerSource Palm Beach County, said the county created more than 14,000 jobs since the previous January. His agency assists job seekers and employers to help employ and train the county workforce.

"On a percentage basis, job growth was strongest in the construction industry, which lagged for years," said Craig, whose company formerly was called the Workforce Alliance.

Figures from 2013 were revised upward to reflect an additional 35,600 jobs by the end of 2013 than previously reported. The Labor Department benchmarks the figures each year by comparing the monthly count with more comprehensive, and thus delayed, counts.

In 2013, professional and business services (up 25,100 jobs) and construction (up 13,300) showed big gains, while retail (down 16,700) fared more poorly than originally reported.

The unemployment rate was also revised significantly, showing that Florida didn¡¯t begin gaining ground on the nation as a whole until July, when the state¡¯s rate started a consistent slide down. That trend was thought to have started as early as April.

December¡¯s number was revised up to 6.3 percent, so the January improvement marked the sixth month the unemployment rate fell by 0.2 percentage points.

But the JOB News job fair continued to pull a large crowd last week as it touted 2,000 positions open with 40 employers who attended.

Laura Phildius of Stuart was there, still looking after two years picking up housework and pet-sitting gigs to cover her bills. The security company she had worked with full time lost its contract, and she lost her job.

"It¡¯s rough for a lot of people," she said. "Finding a full-time job would make it better for me."