NEW YORK - The "everyday low price" king is trying to shake up the world of pricing again.

NEW YORK  The everyday low price king is trying to shake up the world of pricing again.

Wal-Mart said it has rolled out an online tool that allows shoppers to compare its prices on 80,000 food and household products with those of its competitors. The worlds largest retailer began offering the feature thats called Savings Catcher on its website last month in seven big markets that include Dallas, San Diego and Atlanta.

The move by Wal-Mart, which has a long history of undercutting competitors, could change the way people shop and how other retailers price their merchandise. After all, Americans already increasingly are searching for the lowest prices on their tablets and smartphones while in checkout aisles.

Shoppers do this so often that big retailers such as Target and Best Buy are offering to match the lower prices of rivals  but only if shoppers do the research on their own. The idea behind Wal-Marts online feature, on the other hand, is to do the legwork for customers.

The tool isnt revolutionary. For instance, Citibank launched a program two years ago that sends Citi credit-card customers a check for the difference if it finds a lower price from an online retailer. But Wal-Mart is the first traditional retailer to offer such a program, and if its successful, others might follow.

Duncan MacNaughton, chief merchandising and marketing officer for Wal-Mart Store Inc.s U.S. discount division, said shoppers are looking for technological answers to saving them money and time.

Wal-Mart, which declined to comment on when the program will be rolled out nationwide, said its hoping the online tool will build more confidence among Walmart shoppers that it has the best price whenever they shop in stores.

The company built its business on offering the lowest prices on staples such as milk, bread and laundry detergent. But Wal-Marts everyday low price model is under attack from online king Amazon and other competitors that sometimes offer items cheaper.

On top of that, the retailers primarily lower-income customers continue to cut back on spending during the economic recovery.