Walmart is getting into the video game trade-in business once again. Starting March 26, Walmart will start accepting used games for Wii, Xbox, and PlayStation consoles at more than 3,100 U.S. Walmart locations.

For your aging game to qualify, you must bring in a working disc in its original packaging to Walmart's electronics department. After the game disc is checked for cracks and deep scratches, you'll receive a price quote for the amount Walmart is willing to pay.

Accepted games will receive their trade-in value in eGift cards that can be used at Walmart and Sam's club locations and online. Walmart's gift card policy is in line with other video game trade-in retailers including Amazon, Best Buy, and Gamestop.

This is the second time Walmart has ventured into the used video game market, but the first time the company has managed the entire operation itself. In 2009, Walmart partnered with e-Play to bring automated video game trade-in kiosks into select Walmart stores in the U.S. The venture lasted less than a year, however, coming to an abrupt end in February 2010 after e-Play suspended operations, according to Joystiq.

This time around, Walmart wants to get its attempt at used games right and is launching with a more expansive program than the 80-store trial market with e-Play.

"With more than 110 million gamers in the U.S., we see enormous potential in the $2 billion pre-owned video game business opportunity," Walmart said in a blog post Tuesday.

Walmart didn't specify in its announcement exactly which console platforms its trade-in program will support. But Walmart Spokesperson Sarah McKinney told us the company will accept any game from any platform as long as the game has market value.

Walmart will start accepting games next Wednesday, but it doesn't plan on selling the used games in its stores until this summer. Used games will be sold at Walmart locations and online.

This article has been updated to include Sarah McKinney's statement.

This story, "Walmart gets back into buying and selling used video games" was originally published by TechHive .