The company behind the addictive blockbuster game "Candy Crush Saga" believes it could raise nearly $613 million in an initial public offering.

In a regulatory filing Wednesday, King Digital Entertainment, which has offices in San Francisco, said it plans to sell 15.3 million shares in the offering. Existing shareholders will sell an additional 6.7 million shares.

"Candy Crush" was the most downloaded free app on iPhones and iPads in 2013, beating Facebook, Google Maps and YouTube.

The shares are expected to be priced between $21 and $24, for a total of between $466.2 million and $532.8 million. Underwriters have the option of buying up to an additional 3.3 million shares. That could raise an additional $69.9 million to $79.9 million.

Herbalife Ltd., the nutrition company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has accused of being a pyramid scheme, disclosed that the Federal Trade Commission has started a civil probe into its practices.

Herbalife shares dropped more than 7 percent to close at $60.57 Wednesday after rising as much as 6.2 percent before the inquiry was disclosed. Through Tuesday, the shares had gained 54 percent since Ackman announced his short position.

Herbalife is confident it is in compliance with all laws and will cooperate with the investigation, the Cayman Islands company said.

The probe marks an achievement for Ackman, who in 2012 made a $1 billion bet against Herbalife's shares and started working to persuade regulators to shut the company down, saying it misleads distributors, misrepresents sales figures and sells a commodity product at inflated prices. The company has repeatedly denied Ackman's allegations and won allies including billionaire Carl Icahn.

"Herbalife welcomes the inquiry given the tremendous amount of misinformation in the marketplace," the company said.

Justin Cole, a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment.

Wall Street's bonus pool rose 15 percent to $26.7 billion in 2013, fueled by compensation deferred from prior years, according to estimates by New York state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli.

Employees took home an average bonus of $164,530 last year, the most since the 2008 financial crisis and the third highest on record, DiNapoli said in a statement Wednesday. The bonuses rose even as profits from broker-dealer operations of New York Stock Exchange member firms fell 30 percent to $16.7 billion in 2013.

Shares of Goldman Sachs Group, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley each rose more than 95 percent over the past two years, making equity awards worth more than when they were granted in previous years. During the same period, the bonus pool has grown by 44 percent, driven by deferred compensation, DiNapoli said.

"The industry still had a good year in 2013 despite costly legal settlements and higher interest rates," said DiNapoli. "Wall Street continues to demonstrate resilience as it evolves in a changing regulatory environment."

Airline earnings for 2014 will be $1 billion or 5 percent lower than previously predicted as political tensions drive up oil prices and growth in emerging markets slows, the International Air Transport Association said.

Carriers will earn a combined net income of $18.7 billion, compared with the $19.7 billion forecast on Dec. 12, the industry group said Wednesday. Revenues will reach about $745 billion, about $2 billion higher than previously projected.

"This can be characterized as a tweak," said association Chief Executive Officer Tony Tyler. "The overall story is positive. Staying in the black is a major achievement reflecting the restructuring that has taken place."

The cost of crude will rise to an average $108 a barrel, higher than expected, adding about $3 million to the industry's fuel bill, the group said Wednesday. Kerosene accounts for about 30 percent of airline expenses, though an economic upturn is spurring demand to a level that largely compensates for the impact on oil prices of geopolitical instability, it said.

The price of oil dropped below $98 a barrel Wednesday as the possibility of a deeper economic slowdown in China fed expectations of weaker demand and a report showed a rise in U.S. oil supplies.

Benchmark U.S. crude for April delivery fell $2.04, or 2 percent, to close at $97.99 a barrel, the first close below $100 in a month.

Brent crude, used to set prices for international varieties of crude, dropped 53 cents to $108.02 on the London futures exchange.

China's drop in exports in February fueled worries of a further slowdown in the world's second-largest economy, which would tamp down demand for energy. China's economic growth of 7.7 percent last year was the lowest in two decades.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Energy Department said U.S. crude oil supplies grew by 6.2 million barrels last week, well above the increase of 2.3 million barrels expected by analysts surveyed by Platts, the energy information arm of McGraw-Hill Cos.