Antivirus and security software heavyweight Symantec certainly caught the market off-guard yesterday (20th March). The company¡¯s shares are feeling the heat today ¨C down around 13% at time of writing.

The US-based company announced the termination of Steve Bennett as President and CEO.

At the same time, Symantec reiterated its fourth quarter revenue and profit guidance: it expects revenue of between $1.62bn and $1.66bn (versus $1.75bn the previous year).

Still, the move to fire Mr Bennett has created something of a stir given that he was just 20 months into the job of trying to restore the company to growth.

Prevalent cyber-attacks and security breaches and the resulting sustained emphasis on the need for security means that the market is seen as growing.

So it¡¯s no surprise that competition is fierce among both existing players and relatively new entrants as they grapple to gain a larger share of the growing security market. Following underperformance, and in a bid to reposition competitively, Symantec embarked on a transformation plan, which included developing new competitive products and cutting costs.

But, over the last few quarters, declining sales and a plummeting share price (down some 32% from highs reached last summer) have plagued the company.

In light of Symantec¡¯s recent performance, it¡¯s perhaps fair to say that, despite turnaround efforts, the journey towards renewed growth seemed a tad protracted under Mr Bennett¡¯s helm.

That said, given that the Norton antivirus maker sports a net cash position of around $1.8bn (as at December last year), it does have some financial flexibility to embark on further investments as it continues pursuing a turn around.

But shareholders¡¯ patience might be running out¡­

According to the company¡¯s interim CEO, Michael Brown, ¡°the need for protecting and managing your information has never been stronger, and we must act aggressively to capture a growing share of this market¡±.

Indeed, that¡¯s true but it was also just as true some two years ago.

The sell-off on the back this latest news might arguably be a tad dramatic but ¨C until such a time as the company is seen by the market as executing its turnaround effectively (near-term¡¯s doubtful) ¨C the widespread downbeat sentiment is unlikely to improve significantly.