Tallahassee, FL - "We need that income to pay our bills," said Julius Taylor.

Taylor was in construction for 25 years before he lost his job. He now has been applying for unemployment.

"Like I said I've been trying for a month to get on it and every time you refile you lose your weeks worth of benefits," said Taylor.

Taylor may be out of work, but according to Governor Scott, the unemployment rate had dropped to 6.1%. That's the lowest unemployment rate since 2008. Remedy Intelligent Staffing said they've been busier than every adjusting to the changing economy.

"Between the three offices we probably have several hundred people a month that are applying for various positions," said Jay Pichard,CEO Remedy Intelligent Staffing.

Their staff works with companies who are hiring. Right now the companies are looking for jobs in the manufacturing and production fields.

"I'm seeing a lot more of our professional people are coming down taking more of an entry level type job, because that's kind of where the market is right now," said Pichard.

Governor Scott said Florida's unemployment rate is below the national average of 6.6%. and since December of 2010, 503,500 jobs have been created in the private sector.

For Taylor though he said he's not giving up and will continue to look for employment opportunity.

"I have prospects out there, it just takes a little bit of time to get them," said Taylor.

New numbers released Monday show that the state's unemployment rate in January was 6.1 percent. That's the lowest the rate has been since June 2008.

There are an estimated 581,000 Floridians out of work.

Florida's unemployment rate remains below the national average of 6.6 percent.

Gov. Rick Scott has contended the state's unemployment rate is dropping due to his policies.

But state economists have said a big reason for the decline is that people are leaving the labor force or had delayed their job search.

Florida has added close to 200,000 jobs in the last year. That's the third highest amount in the nation according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- Florida's latest unemployment numbers are coming out and could signal whether the state's economic recovery is continuing.

The state's unemployment numbers for January will be released on Monday. The rate in the month of December was 6.2 percent. That's the lowest the rate has been since June 2008.

Payroll provider ADP reported that the state added 11,610 private sector jobs in January and 10,840 additional jobs during the month of February. ADP's survey is separate from the one that is conducted by government agencies.

Gov. Rick Scott has contended the state's unemployment rate is dropping due to his policies.

But state economists have said a big reason for the decline is that people are leaving the labor force or had delayed their job search.