Airbnb, the room-letting network, is in advanced talks to raise funds that would value the company at more than $10bn (6bn).

The company, which allows people to list spaces to rent including tree-houses, castles or even an astronomic geodesic dome , has previously outlined its aim to become the world¡¯s largest hotelier this year.

Private equity group TPG is likely to lead the fundraising valuation, which could total between $400m and $500m, the Wall Street Journal reported.

Its fundraising valuation will see it overtake Intercontinental Hotel Group¡¯s market value of 4.8bn.

The company was founded in 2008 by Brian Chesky Joe Gebbia and Nathan Blecharczyk, a computer science graduate.

Struggling to pay rent, the trio came up with the idea of renting out three airbeds on their living room floor during a San Francisco design conference which saw most of the city¡¯s hotels being fully booked. The next day they created a website airbedandbreakfast.com, which later became Airbnb.

Over 11 million guests have stayed on Airbnb to date, and Airbnb now lists over 600,000 properties in over 35,000 cities worldwide.

Earlier this week the company reported that over one million guests from the UK have now used the service with Paris, New York, Barcelona and Amsterdam being the most popular destinations.

Mr Blecharczyk told The Sunday Telegraph in November: ¡°InterContinental and Hilton have more than 650,000 rooms. We have 500,000, though they have a much higher occupancy rate.¡±

Asked if he expects Airbnb to overtake the two groups next year, he replied ¡°yes¡±.

¡°If you look at our historical growth curve, I don¡¯t think that¡¯s going to change very quickly,¡± he added. ¡°We¡¯ve been growing bookings and revenues two to three times every year and I would expect that to continue

The company, which counts Hollywood actor Ashton Kutcher as an investor, last raised $2.5bn in 2012 from venture capital investors including Peter Thiel¡¯s Founders Fund.

The fundraising attempts come despite an Airbnb horror story going viral after a host wrote a public letter to the company alleging his home was used for a weekend orgy and he was facing eviction from his landlord.