PARIS (Alliance News) - The European markets are mixed on Tuesday afternoon, after German ZEW economic confidence weakened sharply, as investors continued to keep a close watch of developments in Ukraine post Crimea referendum.

Survey data from the Centre for European Economic Research/ZEW revealed economic expectations for Germany worsened in March burdened by the Crimea crisis. The economic confidence index dropped more-than-expected to 46.6 in March from 55.7 in February. The score was forecast to fall to 52.

Meanwhile, preliminary data published by statistical office Eurostat showed that Eurozone's merchandise trade with the rest of the world resulted in a surplus in January, marking an improvement from the deficit recorded a year earlier.

A two-day monetary policy meeting of the Federal Reserve is starting later in the day. Economists expect the central bank to announce another USD10 billion cut to its bond-buying program. Fed Chair Janet Yellen will deliver her first press conference after the conclusion of the meeting on Wednesday.

Data published by the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association showed registrations of new passenger vehicles advanced 8% on an annual basis in February to 861,058 units, which the ACEA said was the second lowest unit figure to date for a month of February since it began the series in 2003 with the enlarged EU. In January, sales grew 5.5%.

The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks is losing 0.20%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, is falling 0.13%.

The German DAX is declining 0.40% and the UK's FTSE 100 is losing 0.09%. The French CAC 40 turned positive and is currently up 0.06% along with Switzerland's SMI.

In Frankfurt, Basf and Adidas are losing 1.7% each.

Deutsche Telekom and Linde are declining 1.4% each.

Volkswagen is losing 1.4% after Swedish automotive firm Scania said its Independent board Committee recommended that shareholders not tender their shares to the German car maker's offer as it did not reflect the long-term fundamental value of the company. Scania is declining nearly 5% in Stockholm.

Bucking the trend, Qiagen is gaining 2.7%. The biotechnology firm was upgraded to ''Buy'' from ''Hold'' at Berenberg.

In Paris, Bouygues is losing 2% and Vivendi is down 1%.

Schneider Electric and Airbus are advancing 1.5% and 1.3%, respectively.

GDF Suez is gaining 1.2%. Exane BNP raised the stock to ''Outperform'' from ''Underperform.''

In London, Resolution is declining 5% after its co-founders Clive Cowdery and John Tiner decided not to stand for re-election as non-executive directors of the company at the Annual General Meeting to be held in May.

Fresnillo is declining 5.2% and Randgold Resources is losing 1.7%.

Swiss Re is up around 1% in Zurich. The insurer is well ahead of schedule on its 2011-2015 financial targets.

The Asian stocks gained ground, tracking strong gains in the US and Europe overnight as concerns over the situation in Crimea eased and data showing improvement in US factory output boosted optimism in the economy.

In the US, futures point to a lower open on Wall Street. In the previous session, the Dow rose 1.1%, the tech-heavy Nasdaq gained 0.8% and the S&P 500 added a percent.

Crude for April delivery is rising USD0.04 to USD98.12 per barrel, while April gold is falling USD10.4 to USD1362.5 a troy ounce.