The mystery of where the missing Malaysia Air Flight 370 777 could have flown heightened as the disappearance entered its tenth day. The search area was once again expanded with a renewed urgency by Malaysian officials in reaction to international criticism that information was not being timely shared. Officials are now looking at the possibility that the aircraft was flown at low altitude to avoid radar detection. This low level flight would have had to occur after the aircraft left Malaysian airspace as the Malaysian military has reported spotting the aircraft on radar over its airspace. If the aircraft was flown at low altitudes, it would significantly alter the aircraft's range as airliners are not designed to fly efficiently at low altitudes. The amount of fuel burn increases dramatically at low altitude and the aircraft's range is correspondingly reduced, changing once again the search focus.

At an evening press conference in Kuala Lumpur, early morning on the US East Coast, Malaysia's Acting Minister of Transportation defended his country's handling of the disappearance of the Boeing 777 aircraft, claiming it needed to verify information before sharing it with the international community to avoid expending assets inappropriately. The official stated that 26 countries are now assisting in the search with countries in the flight corridors being asked to provide radar and satellite data for analysis and aircraft and ships for the physical search. Other countries like China and France are being asked for technical assistance. The Malaysian official claimed that US investigators have been involved from the beginning, including the FBI.

Malaysia's recent efforts to involve the international community are a welcome development but their delay may come at a high price, both in terms of delay in finding the aircraft and needless expenditure of assets tracking down incorrect information. For example, substantial assets were expended searching the intended flight path between Malaysia and Vietnam when Malaysian authorities had radar data showing the 777 had flown to across Malaysia and towards the Indian Ocean.