After coming under pressure early in the session, stocks have regained some ground over the course of the trading day on Wednesday. The major averages have climbed well off their lows of the session but remain in negative territory.

In recent trading, the major averages have pulled back off their recovery highs. The Dow is down 103.86 points or 0.4 percent at 25,694.56, the Nasdaq is down 28.72 points or 0.4 percent at 7,616.77 and the S&P 500 is down 6.02 points or 0.2 percent at 2,803.90.

Profit taking contributed to the early weakness on Wall Street, as traders cashed in on yesterday's rally amid lingering uncertainty about the near-term outlook for the markets.

A negative reaction to the latest batch of earnings news also weighed on the markets, with tech giant IBM Corp. (IBM) falling sharply after reporting third quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates but weaker than expected revenues.

On the other hand, shares of Netflix (NFLX) have jumped after the video streaming service reported better than expected third quarter earnings, revenues, and subscriber growth.

Negative sentiment was also generated by the release of a report from the Commerce Department showing a much bigger than expected pullback in housing starts in the month of September.

The Commerce Department said housing starts tumbled by 5.3 percent to an annual rate of 1.201 million in September from the revised August estimate of 1.268 million.

Economists had expected housing starts to pull back by about 3.5 percent to a rate of 1.237 million from the 1.282 million originally reported for the previous month.

The report also showed a continued decrease in building permits, which fell by 0.6 percent to an annual rate of 1.241 million in September from a revised 1.249 million in August.

Building permits, an indicator of future housing demand, had been expected to jump by about 4.1 percent to a rate of 1.280 million from the 1.229 million originally reported for the previous month.

Overall trading activity is somewhat subdued, however, as traders look ahead to this afternoon's release of the minutes of the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy meeting.

Traders are likely to closely scrutinize the minutes of the Fed's September meeting, looking for additional clues about the outlook for interest rates.

During the meeting, the Fed decided to raise rates by a quarter point to 2 to 2.25 percent and forecast another rate hike before the end of the year.

Despite the recovery attempt by the broader markets, housing stocks continue to see significant weakness in mid-day trading. The Philadelphia Housing Sector Index has climbed off its worst levels of the day but remains down by 1.9 percent.

Housing stocks are pulling back after moving higher for three straight sessions, with the disappointing housing starts data weighing on the sector.

Energy stocks also continue to see considerable weakness amid a steep drop by the price of crude oil. Crude for November delivery is plunging $1.96 to $69.96 a barrel following the release of a report showing an unexpected weekly jump in crude oil inventories.

Reflecting the weakness in the energy sector, the NYSE Arca Natural Gas Index is down by 2.1 percent, the Philadelphia Oil Service Index is down by 2 percent and the NYSE Arca Oil Index is down by 1.4 percent.

Biotechnology and chemical stocks are also seeing some weakness on the day, while tobacco stocks have shown a strong move to the upside.

In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region moved mostly higher during trading on Wednesday. Japan's Nikkei 225 Index shot up by 1.3 percent, while China's Shanghai Composite Index climbed by 0.6 percent.

Meanwhile, the major European markets moved to the downside on the day. While the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index edged down by 0.1 percent, the German DAX Index and the French CAC 40 Index both fell by 0.5 percent.

In the bond market, treasuries are turning in another lackluster performance after ending the previous session roughly flat. Subsequently, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, is up by less than a basis point at 3.158 percent.