At U.S. lender, Citi Mortgage (NYSE:C) interest rates improved on some of the lender¡¯s home purchase and refinance loans on Wednesday, March 12. Borrowers, who are intending to secure a long-term home purchase loan at a favorable rate, can see the 30-year fixed mortgage being advertised today at a rate of 4.250% at Citi Mortgage. Compared to yesterday¡¯s rate quote this is an improvement of 0.125% on this type of loan. Although, this Wednesday hasn¡¯t brough a lower rate for the 15-year FRM, this fixed mortgage retained its level at 3.375%.

We also noticed some lower interest rates among the lender¡¯s refinance loan offerings. Currently, the 15-year fixed conventional mortgage is published at a rate of 3.375%, a downtick compared to yesterday¡¯s 3.500%. The longer-term 30-year refinance loan has a daily low at 4.375%, at this mortgage provider. Further details on Citi Mortgage¡¯s home purchase and refinance rates, discount points and APRs can be found below.

Citi Mortgage offers excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing mortgage, may find some suitable loan packages at this financial institution.

Please, bear in mind, that the current mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the bank and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rate calculations were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

U.S. mortgage application activity declined during the past week, according to the results of the Mortgage Bankers Association¡¯s (MBA) most recent survey. The MBA reported on Wednesday that the seasonally adjusted Market Composite Index fell 2.1% in the week ended March 7. The Refinance Index decreased 3%, while the Purchase Index slipped 1%, in the said period. According to the survey, the share of applicants seeking to refinance their existing loans ticked up to 58%.

As for national average mortgage rates, Freddie Mac reported last Thursday that the average rate on the 30-year fixed loan dipped to 4.28%. A week earlier this type of loan was carrying 4.37% in interest. With regards to the 15-year fixed loan, the average rate looked more attractive last week at 3.32%, the mortgage-finance company reported in its weekly survey.

For additional details on Citi Mortgage¡¯s home purchase and refinance mortgage interest rates, loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, please visit the lender¡¯s website.