The battle over men¡¯s clothing is finally over.

Men¡¯s Wearhouse agreed to buy Maryland-based Jos. A. Bank on Tuesday in a deal worth $1.8 billion, ending nearly six months of public hostilities between the menswear retailers.

The combined company will become the country¡¯s fourth-largest men¡¯s retailer, with $3.5 billion a year in sales and more than 1,700 stores across the country, Men¡¯s Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank said in a joint statement. Jos. A. Bank¡¯s brand will stay independent, they said.

Tuesday¡¯s announcement comes a week after the retailers began negotiating and caps months of public bickering.

The companies, which have competed for budget-conscious customers for years, said Tuesday that they were better off working together. Jos. A. Bank is known for its frequent sales, including ¡°Buy 1 Suit, Get 3 Free¡± offers, while Men¡¯s Wearhouse promotes itself as a year-round low-cost alternative. Jos. A. Bank has said that customers were becoming immune to its promotions.

¡°They¡¯re trying to kill each other by one-up promotions,¡± but that strategy couldn¡¯t last, said Ronald Goodstein, an associate professor of marketing at Georgetown University¡¯s McDonough School of Business. The merger will allow them to cut costs and create a ¡°mega-brand,¡± he said.

The tussle began in October, when Jos. A. Bank launched a hostile takeover bid of its larger rival. A month later, Men¡¯s Wearhouse countered by offering to buy Jos. A. Bank. That bid was rejected. Meanwhile, Jos. A. Bank said it would acquire outdoor-wear maker Eddie Bauer. The move was a strategic one, industry observers say, designed to block Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s takeover attempts unless it was given a better deal.

Men¡¯s Wearhouse eventually upped its bid for Jos. A. Bank and the two entered into intense negotiations. In the end, Men¡¯s Wearhouse increased its bid for Jos. A. Bank from $1.2 billion to $1.8 billion. As part of the deal, Jos. A. Bank said it will abandon its purchase of Eddie Bauer.

Both companies issued statements absent of any of the recent acrimony.

¡°We are pleased to have reached this agreement with Jos. A. Bank, which we believe will deliver substantial benefits to our respective shareholders, employees and customers,¡± Doug Ewert, president and chief executive of Men¡¯s Wearhouse, said in a statement.

¡°We look forward to working together with Men¡¯s Wearhouse to ensure a smooth transition,¡± Robert Widrick, chairman of the board at Jos. A. Bank, said in a statement.

After the deal was announced, Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s stock climbed 4.7 percent, to $57.14. Jos. A. Bank¡¯s stock price rose 3.8 percent, to close at $64.22.

¡°Today was a grand-slam home run for the stockholders in both companies,¡± said Jerry Reisman, a mergers lawyer based in Garden City, N.Y.

Jos. A. Bank ¡°will enable Men¡¯s Wearhouse to go forward as a much stronger and more profitable company,¡± he said.

Joseph A. Bank, which was founded in Baltimore in 1905, has more than 600 stores. The companies did not announce whether any of those stores would close. Men¡¯s Wearhouse, which is based in Fremont, Calif., has more than 1,000 stores across the United States and operates a separate brand in the United Kingdom.