DUBLIN-based King Digital Entertainment, best known for the hit mobile phone game "Candy Crush Saga" as well as "Pet Rescue Saga" said it expects to price its initial public offering at between $21 and $24 per share, valuing the company's equity at about $7.56bn (5.45bn). King, whose owners include Apax Partners and venture capital firm Index Ventures, intends to raise about $533m by listing on the New York Stock Exchange. It will use the funds for working capital and acquisitions.

DUBLIN-based King Digital Entertainment, best known for the hit mobile phone game "Candy Crush Saga" as well as "Pet Rescue Saga" said it expects to price its initial public offering at between $21 and $24 per share, valuing the company's equity at about $7.56bn (5.45bn). King, whose owners include Apax Partners and venture capital firm Index Ventures, intends to raise about $533m by listing on the New York Stock Exchange. It will use the funds for working capital and acquisitions.

"Candy Crush Saga" was the most downloaded free app of 2013 and the year's top revenue-grossing app. It has been downloaded more than 500m times since its launch in 2012. The basic game is free, but players must pay for add-ons or extra lives. King offers 180 games in 14 languages through mobile phones, Facebook and its own website 每 the company says its games are played more than 1bn times a day 每 but is heavily reliant on Candy Crush, which brings in about three-quarters of its revenues. Demand for the puzzle game, which features different coloured candies, drove an elevenfold surge in revenue in 2013 to $1.9bn.

FINLAND is using public funds to prop up companies with no hope of surviving on their own, according to the head of the country's biggest business park operator Technopolis Oyj. "We're putting a lot of money into saving old industries," Technopolis chief executive Keith Silverang said. "It's a waste, we can't save them." Mr Silverang is urging the government to change its policy and help Finland's economy recover by channelling funds into growth industries.

Finland's economy has contracted for three of the past five years, depleting state coffers and destroying jobs.

As demand for the nation's forestry products and mobile phones evaporates, Finland has struggled to replace those markets.

Industrial production slumped an annual 7.5pc in January, falling for a 15th consecutive month. Meanwhile the state is investing about 195m in Outokumpu Oyj, a stainless-steel company that hasn't booked a profit since 2007.

VICTORIA'S Secret will face off with one of its most famous Angels, supermodel Gisele Bundchen, when its first store opens in Brazil later this year. The Brazilian model 每 who strutted the runway as a Victoria's Secret Angel in its annual fashion show until 2007 每 is teaming up with closely held lingerie maker Hope to open the first Gisele Bundchen Intimates store in Sao Paulo in May. A Victoria's Secret-branded shop is set to open its doors in the South American capital the very same month.

A celebrity like Bundchen, "if you're small and unknown, is going to put you on the radar in a way that not many other branding and marketing tactics would," said Leslie Farnsworth, chief executive of FrogDog, a Houston-based marketing consultancy. "But there are huge risks." Celebrities can become overexposed with too many endorsements or overshadow the brands they are meant to be highlighting, she said. Bundchen also hawks Oral B Whitestrips and clothing for retailer Colcci.

GREEK public sector workers have shut schools and left hospitals on emergency staffing levels to protest against thousands more job cuts demanded by foreign lenders even as unemployment holds near record highs. Doctors, teachers and school guards joined the 24-hour strike and planned marches to parliament, the focal point of anti-austerity protests, where lawmakers will debate a draft bill on public sector reforms. Greece's lenders have demanded 11,400 public sector lay-offs this year, the fifth straight year of job cuts in the sector, but labour unions fear the country will have to impose even more wage and pension cuts in the coming years to meet the targets of its 240bn bailout deal with the EU and IMF.

"They won't stop unless we stop them," public sector union ADEDY, which organised the walkout, said in a statement, calling the reforms "an attack on workers' rights". Anti-austerity sentiment remains high in Greece, where repeated bouts of belt-tightening since it was rescued from bankruptcy in 2010 have left three times as many Greeks jobless, pushed up homelessness and eroded living standards.

Norway's $840bn oil fund, the world's largest sovereign wealth fund, has admitted that investing in Bernie Ecclestone's Formula One Group was a mistake. In May, the fund paid $1.6bn for a 21.3pc share of the group in a consortium with two other funds, BlackRock and Waddell & Reed Financial. "Yes, we have made a mistake," fund director Yngve Slyngstad has now conceded, suggesting the fund may try to offload its stake.

The sovereign wealth fund invests surplus oil revenue to guarantee the continuation of Norway's generous welfare benefits for future generations. Started in the 1990s, the fund has shares in 8,213 companies around the world. The purchase of a stake in Formula One was criticised by some politicians and by Norwegian media as falling short of the fund's strict ethical rules.

The Formula One Group, which manages the sport's commercial rights, is run by Bernie Ecclestone, who is to go on trial on corruption charges in Munich in April . The 83-year-old was charged in July over a $44m payment he made to former German banker Gerhard Gribkowsky, which was linked to the sale of F1 championship rights.

STARBUCKS, the world's largest coffee-shop operator, will test a mobile phone service for ordering items ahead of time at some US cafes this year as it looks to bolster its smartphone applications. Starbucks is "actively working" on mobile ordering, according to Adam Brotman, chief digital officer at the Seattle-based company. "It's something our customers have asked for," he said. "We're not revealing a lot of details about it now."

Starbucks, which has more than 20,000 locations worldwide, has been focused on expanding and improving its rewards programme and mobile apps to help boost sales. Last month, chief executive Howard Schultz handed over day-to-day operations to Troy Alstead, chief operating officer, so he can focus on "next-generation" commerce. Schultz is "working directly on all of the mobile plans and vision we are putting together," Brotman said.

On March 19 the company will update its iPhone app to include barista tipping and a new shake-to-pay function. More than 11pc of the company's US store transactions are carried out with a mobile device, Mr Brotman said.