On Wednesday, mortgage rates are holding steady on the majority of home purchase and refinance loans at North Carolina-based lender, Branch Banking and Trust (NYSE:BBT). As far as current home purchase rates are concerned, BB&T advertises the 30-year fixed mortgage at a rate of 4.375%. Moving down on the scale, BB&T¡¯s shorter-term, 20-year fixed loan is quoted at a rate of 4.125%, according to today¡¯s updated data. The 15-year FRM looks competitive as well, with the interest rate hovering at 3.375% on this type of loan. Borrowers, who are more interested in a shorter-term home loan, may want to consider the bank¡¯s 10-year mortgage, which is currently listed at a rate of 3.000%.

Following the drop in mortgage rates on long-term FHA and VA loans on Tuesday, interest rate retained their levels a day later. BB&T¡¯s non-conventional loan portfolio includes the 30-year FHA mortgage, which remained firm at 3.750%. The same can be said about the 30-year VA loan, as it can be locked in at a rate of 3.750%. Check the details below for additional details on BB&T¡¯s home loan rates, as well information on refinance loan options.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Branch Banking and Trust has been offering excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing mortgage, may find some ideal loan packages at this financial institution.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in Washington, DC. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to refinance an existing mortgage with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in Washington, DC. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

Please, note that the current mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

For more information on current mortgage rates at BB&T Bank, borrowing terms and conditions, as well as further mortgage packages, please head over to the bank¡¯s website.