The major U.S. index futures are pointing to a lower opening on Monday, with sentiment suggesting nervousness of traders amid a lack of clarity due to the absence of any major domestic catalysts. Adding to concerns, China reported an unexpected trade deficit, which has triggered global growth concerns. Stocks may go about a consolidation move, with some degree of profit taking most likely to occur.

U.S. stocks extended their advance in the week ended March 7th, as the markets braved the fears generated by the developments in Ukraine and the uncertainty triggered by mixed economic data.

Last Monday, the major averages were hit by geopolitical concerns and closed notably lower. However, with Russia softening their stance, geopolitical worries faded, triggering a substantial rebound by the markets on Tuesday. Amid the release of soft economic data on private payrolls and the non-manufacturing sector, the averages went about in a lackluster manner on Wednesday before closing mixed.

Notwithstanding the release of positive jobless claims data, the major averages closed mixed again on Thursday. The major averages closed mixed once again on Friday, as the simmering Ukrainian crisis and uneasiness over the overbought levels of the markets took the sheen out of the positive non-farm payrolls data.

For the week, the Dow Industrials rose 0.80 percent and the S&P 500 Index climbed 1 percent, while the Nasdaq Composite Index added 0.65 percent.

Among the sector indexes, the Dow Jones Transportation Average and the KBW Bank Index advanced over 3 percent for the week, and the NYSE Arca Airline Index and the NYSE Arca Securities Broker/Dealer Index rose over 2 percent each. Additionally, the NYSE Arca Gold Bugs Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index added close to 2 percent each, while the Philadelphia Housing Sector Index slipped 1.31 percent.

Crude oil futures are sliding $1.46 to $101.12 a barrel after ending almost flat at $102.58 in the week ended March 7th.

Last Monday, crude oil rallied by over $2-a-barrel amid geopolitical concerns. However, the commodity retreated by over $1.50-a-barrel on Tuesday after Russia pulled its troops back from the border.

The commodity fell further, dropping close to $2-a-barrel on Wednesday amid the release of weak private payrolls data. Oil edged up modestly on Thursday. The commodity jumped by over $1-a-barrel on Friday in reaction to the non-farm payrolls report.

Gold futures, which rose $16.60 or 1.26 percent to $1,338.20 an ounce last week, are moving down $1 to $1,337.20 an ounce.

On the currency front, the U.S. dollar weakened against the euro in the week ended March 7th, losing 0.53 percent before ending the week at $1.3875. At the same time, the greenback rose 1.45 percent against the Japanese yen to 103.28 yen.

The U.S. dollar is currently trading at 103.35 yen and is valued at $1.3883 versus the euro.

The Asian markets retreated amid profit taking, as the recent run up and soft Chinese trade data generated negative sentiment. The Chinese market plunged close to 3 percent, and the Japanese and Hong Kong markets also retreated sharply.

Japan's Nikkei 225 average opened lower and declined steadily till the afternoon. Thereafter, the index moved sideways before closing down 153.93 points or 1.01 percent at 15,120. Export stocks moved to the downside, while construction, real estate, pharma and banking stocks found buying interest.

Australia's All Ordinaries languished below the unchanged line throughout the session before closing down 46.20 points or 0.84 percent at 5,431. Material stocks with exposure to the Chinese economy slumped, while energy and financial stocks also came under selling pressure.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed at 22,265, down 395.56 points or 1.75 percent, and China's Shanghai Composite Index plunged 58.84 points or 2.86 percent to 1,999, closing below 2,000 for the first time since January 20th.

On the economic front, a report released by Chinese General Administration of Customs showed that Chinese exports declined 18.1 percent year-over-year in February compared to a 10.1 percent increase in imports. Consequently, the trade balance turned to a deficit of $22.98 billion from a surplus of $31.86 billion last year. Combining the data for January and February to smooth out the volatility caused by the Lunar New Year holidays showed that exports fell 1.6 percent but imports rose 10 percent, resulting in a 79.1 percent drop in the trade surplus to $8.89 billion.

Separate data released by the Chinese National Bureau of Statistics showed that annual consumer price inflation in Chine eased to 2 percent in February from 2.5 percent in January, with the drop coming in line with estimates.

Final estimates released by Japan's Cabinet Office showed that Japan's fourth quarter GDP growth was downwardly revised to 0.2 percent quarter-over-quarter from the 0.3 percent increase estimated earlier. The downward revision was in line with estimates.

Overall bank lending in Japan was up 2.4 percent year-over-year in February, according to data released by the Bank of Japan. This was down from 2.5 percent in January.

After a weak start, European stocks recovered in early trading but have turned mixed since then

In corporate news, Bouygues agreed to sell part of its mobile phone network and a portfolio of frequencies to smaller peer Ilaid SA in a deal valued at up to 1.8 billion euros or $2.5 billion. Unilever bought a majority stake in Chinese water purification company Qinyuan Group for an undisclosed amount.

Sentix released the results of its investor sentiment survey, which showed that confidence among investors in the eurozone remained almost unchanged in March. The corresponding index came in at 13.9 compared to 15 in February.

The unfolding week's economic calendar is backend loaded, with some first-tier economic data due only in the latter part of the week. The spotlight is likely to be on the Commerce Department's retail sales report for February, the weekly jobless claims report and preliminary results of the consumer sentiment survey by Reuters and the University of Michigan.

The Commerce Department's wholesale and business inventories reports for January, the Treasury Budget for February, the Labor Department's import and export prices data for February, the producer price inflation report for February and Treasury auctions of 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds round up the economic events of the week.

Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Plosser is scheduled to speak on monetary policy, banks and protectionism in Paris at 4:45 am ET. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans will speak on the economy and monetary policy in Columbus, Georgia at 12:40 am ET.

Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) announced preliminary fourth quarter results to reflect the impact of adverse weather conditions. The company now expects comparable store sales growth of 1.7 percent compared to its previous guidance of 2-4 percent growth. The company also lowered its fourth quarter earnings guidance to $1.57-$1.61 per share from $1.60-$1.67 per share. The company also said that the estimated impact on net earnings for the first quarter was 6-7 cents per share.

United Rentals (URI) announced an asset purchase agreement to acquire National Pump, along with GulfCo, a two branch rental business also based in Texas, for a purchase price of $780 million. The company expects the deal to be accretive to its free cash flow and earnings per share in 2014.

Casey's General (CASY), FuelCell Energy (FCEL), Novavax (NVAX), Tech Data (TECD) and United Natural Foods (UNFI) are among the companies due to release their quarterly results after the close of trading.