WASHINGTON - The Janet Yellen era at the Federal Reserve begins in earnest today with a two-day meeting, a policy statement and fresh economic forecasts. Yet all that will be a prelude to the marquee event: Yellen's first news conference as Fed chairwoman. The financial world will be parsing every word for any hint of a policy shift.

WASHINGTON  The Janet Yellen era at the Federal Reserve begins in earnest today with a two-day meeting, a policy statement and fresh economic forecasts. Yet all that will be a prelude to the marquee event: Yellens first news conference as Fed chairwoman.

The financial world will be parsing every word for any hint of a policy shift.

Will Yellen embrace predecessor Ben Bernankes approach of keeping rates low while gradually paring the Feds economic stimulus?

Or, as some speculate, might she prove even more inclined than Bernanke to favor low rates to try to accelerate job growth, even at the risk of high inflation?

No major announcements are expected when the meeting ends on Wednesday. But many analysts think the Fed could make one change in its statement: They think it might drop any reference to an unemployment rate that might cause the Fed to raise short-term rates eventually. Eliminating that reference would help the Fed maximize its flexibility on rates.

The Feds most-recent policy statement said it planned to keep short-term rates at record lows  well past the time the unemployment rate falls below 6.5 percent. The rate is now 6.7 percent. But several Fed officials recently have suggested scrapping that threshold and instead describing more-general changes in the job market and inflation that might trigger a rate increase.

Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said last week that theres  not a large expectation that the 6.5 percent threshold will remain much longer, a point also made recently by William Dudley, president of the New York Fed.

One reason for dropping the threshold, as Yellen among others have noted, is that the unemployment rate can overstate the job markets health. In recent months, for example, the rate has fallen not so much because of hiring but because many people without a job have stopped looking for one. Once people stop looking for a job, theyre no longer counted as unemployed, and the rate can fall as a result.