<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Former prosecutor Gerrie Nel is seeking to bring a private prosecution against a prominent person in the financial sector who allegedly raped his three-year-old granddaughter. Nel is now head of private prosecutions for AfriForum. The organisation said on Thursday it has applied for a nolle prosequi certificate (a formal notice of abandonment of a prosecution by the National Prosecuting Authority) so that it can start the private prosecution on behalf of the child. Nel said the alleged rape occurred in the home of the victim’s grandparents in September 2016.</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Convicted murderer and Paralympian Oscar Pistorius learnt on Friday that his 101-year-old grandfather had died and did not take the news well. The family confirmed that Hendrik Pistorius had died in the early hours of Friday. One of Hendrik’s 23 grandsons‚ who asked not to be named so as not to betray the family’s trust‚ said Oscar had been upset because he had fond memories of his grandfather. Oscar was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. The grandson said members of the family were with Hendrik when he died. “He had health problems. He was in and out of hospital. He was in pain. We are glad we had an opportunity to spend time with him.”</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">London - Their relationship has frequently been the subject of speculation. Now David Beckham has admitted that his marriage to Victoria is "always hard work" and "complicated". The former England footballer speaks about his 19-year marriage to the former Spice Girl, who is now a fashion designer, during a TV interview to be shown in Australia on Sunday. In a preview clip, Beckham, 43, tells The Sunday Project: "To have been married for the amount of time that we have, you know, it’s always hard work. It becomes a little more complicated." Asked about the constant press interest surrounding the high-profile couple, who have children Brooklyn, 19, Romeo, 16, Cruz, 13, and Harper, seven, Beckham</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Port Elizabeth - Local pastor Osugawu Chuks leading the Jesus Dominion International (JDI) church in Port Elizabeth on Friday, vowed that the branch in North End would not be shut down on Sunday. A civil society group calling itself ‘Nelson Mandela Bay Citizens In Unity’ held a press briefing on Friday calling for the total shutdown of rape accused pastor Timothy Omotoso’s church in Port Elizabeth.  The civil society group includes members of African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL), ANC Women’s League (ANCWL), and Economic Freedom Fighters as well as representatives of unions the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) and the South African Students’ Congress (Sasco). On Sunday,</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">This unedited blog post by the EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu claims that a cabal headed by Pravin Gordhan controls state-owned entities and certain sections of the media.  Immediately after the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) Press Conference, on Tuesday, 16th October 2018, which dispelled the allegations that the EFF and its Deputy President, Floyd Shivambu, received money from the VBS Mutual Bank as part of the reported; “Great Bank Heist”, one of Minister Pravin Gordhan’s protégés sent me a direct text message.  Amongst other things it said; “with due respect Floyd, this obsession with PG or any individual in the ANC will change the character of the EFF”. My prompt response to this</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">JOHANNESBURG - The South African Council of Churches has added its voice to the trial of televangelist Timothy Omotoso, condemning the manner in which his lawyer questioned 22-year-old Cheryl Zondi. Zondi, the first witness in the case, claims she was sexually abused by the Nigerian pastor. The church body has called on the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the office of the Chief Justice to consider the creation of special courts dedicated to rape cases. The council says that Zondi's grilling by Advocate Peter Daubermann was reminiscent of the apartheid security branch's interrogation of prisoners. Daubermann sparked outrage among Zondi’s supporters when he implied that she was a willing</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has been subpoenaed to answer why his department allowed an unpaid R67 million invoice owed to an information technology (IT) company undergoing liquidation to balloon to almost R800m. According to investigators in the liquidation process, the amount owed to IT company Double Ring Trading shot up when the dispute with the Department of Home Affairs began in 2009, to the current R794m, which liquidators are gunning for. Lorenzo Pavoncelli, one of the investigators appointed by liquidators SAF Trust to oversee the winding up of Double Ring Trading, asserted that they wanted the R794m, which they said could be forked out by taxpayers. Subpoenas were issued by the South Gauteng High Court this week for Gigaba to appear before a court-appointed presiding officer later this month and provide documents about the government's alleged complicity in the non-payment of the bill, which resulted in the loss of 150 jobs when the IT company was forced to shut down.</p>
