<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Former prosecutor Gerrie Nel is seeking to bring a private prosecution against a prominent person in the financial sector who allegedly raped his three-year-old granddaughter. Nel is now head of private prosecutions for AfriForum. The organisation said on Thursday it has applied for a nolle prosequi certificate (a formal notice of abandonment of a prosecution by the National Prosecuting Authority) so that it can start the private prosecution on behalf of the child. Nel said the alleged rape occurred in the home of the victim’s grandparents in September 2016.</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Convicted murderer and Paralympian Oscar Pistorius learnt on Friday that his 101-year-old grandfather had died and did not take the news well. The family confirmed that Hendrik Pistorius had died in the early hours of Friday. One of Hendrik’s 23 grandsons‚ who asked not to be named so as not to betray the family’s trust‚ said Oscar had been upset because he had fond memories of his grandfather. Oscar was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment for murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. The grandson said members of the family were with Hendrik when he died. “He had health problems. He was in and out of hospital. He was in pain. We are glad we had an opportunity to spend time with him.”</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(3,54px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Cape Town - Former MEC for Economic Development and Tourism, Mxolisi Dukwana has indicated that he is prepared to testify against Ace Magashule before the Zondo Commission into State Capture. The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called on Magashule to answer questions regarding allegations of state capture and corruption during his term of office in the Free State. "The Free State government has been a conduit through which the resources were distributed to the Gupta family and other companies in the province. This includes the Vrede Dairy Farm, the landing of the Guptas in the Waterkloof Air Force Base with Magashule’s assistance and the exorbitant amounts paid by the Province towards the New Age</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">London - Their relationship has frequently been the subject of speculation. Now David Beckham has admitted that his marriage to Victoria is "always hard work" and "complicated". The former England footballer speaks about his 19-year marriage to the former Spice Girl, who is now a fashion designer, during a TV interview to be shown in Australia on Sunday. In a preview clip, Beckham, 43, tells The Sunday Project: "To have been married for the amount of time that we have, you know, it’s always hard work. It becomes a little more complicated." Asked about the constant press interest surrounding the high-profile couple, who have children Brooklyn, 19, Romeo, 16, Cruz, 13, and Harper, seven, Beckham</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Port Elizabeth - Local pastor Osugawu Chuks leading the Jesus Dominion International (JDI) church in Port Elizabeth on Friday, vowed that the branch in North End would not be shut down on Sunday. A civil society group calling itself ‘Nelson Mandela Bay Citizens In Unity’ held a press briefing on Friday calling for the total shutdown of rape accused pastor Timothy Omotoso’s church in Port Elizabeth.  The civil society group includes members of African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL), ANC Women’s League (ANCWL), and Economic Freedom Fighters as well as representatives of unions the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) and the South African Students’ Congress (Sasco). On Sunday,</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has been subpoenaed to answer why his department allowed an unpaid R67 million invoice owed to an information technology (IT) company undergoing liquidation to balloon to almost R800m. According to investigators in the liquidation process, the amount owed to IT company Double Ring Trading shot up when the dispute with the Department of Home Affairs began in 2009, to the current R794m, which liquidators are gunning for. Lorenzo Pavoncelli, one of the investigators appointed by liquidators SAF Trust to oversee the winding up of Double Ring Trading, asserted that they wanted the R794m, which they said could be forked out by taxpayers. Subpoenas were issued by the South Gauteng High Court this week for Gigaba to appear before a court-appointed presiding officer later this month and provide documents about the government's alleged complicity in the non-payment of the bill, which resulted in the loss of 150 jobs when the IT company was forced to shut down.</p>
<p class=" stream-summary LineClamp(2,33px) Lh(17px) C($gray) Bfv(h)">The 37-year-old royal - who is expecting her first child in the spring - has showcased two new looks by her go-to designers Martin Grant and British favourite Roksanda during the fourth day of her 16-day tour of Australia, New Zealand, Tonga and Fiji with her husband, Prince Harry.  The Duchess opted for a striped Martin Grant maxi dress and Castañer espadrilles during a visit to Bondi Beach, where the couple met a local surfing community group, known as OneWave, and helped to raise awareness for mental health and well-being. The former 'Suits' actress - who was previously known as Meghan Markle before getting married in May - has had websites crashing with fans eager to get their hands on the</p>
