The drama surrounding Jos. A. Bank and Men¡¯s Wearhouse has a new twist. Jos. A. Bank on Friday said it will acquire outdoor clothing brand Eddie Bauer for $825 million in cash and stock.

Jos. A. Bank /quotes/zigman/56759/delayed /quotes/nls/josb JOSB , which last year approached Men¡¯s Wearhouse /quotes/zigman/233713/delayed /quotes/nls/mw MW for a buyout offer before being rejected and then turning to spurn Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s counter offers, even sought to point out it had even contacted private equity firm Golden Gate, which bought Eddie Bauer out of bankruptcy in 2009, for a buyout offer several times before it made its offer for Men¡¯s Wearhouse.

In an interview, Jos. A. Bank CEO Neal Black said Friday¡¯s announcement was not a defensive move.

A deal with ¡°Men¡¯s Wearhouse was all about synergies in the short term and not about growth¡± no matter which side would prevail, Black told MarketWatch, adding Jos. A. Bank¡¯s 35-55-year-old, upper-middle-income customer base is even more similar to Eddie Bauer¡¯s than Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s younger, less affluent customer base. That category ¡°is a market share battle instead of any kind of new growth. We see this as a much better long-term option. Eddie Bauer is ready now for a growth phase.¡±

Indeed, the outdoor active market that Eddie Bauer competes in has been an industry outperformer, having boosted growth of companies including VF Corp. /quotes/zigman/245259/delayed /quotes/nls/vfc VFC , whose North Face brand is now its largest label. Black said Eddie Bauer could have the potential to become the larger portion of its business. He said in addition to cost synergies, Eddie Bauer could benefit from Jos. A. Bank¡¯s expertise to select and secure good store locations after poorly chosen and large stores led to Eddie Bauer¡¯s prior bankruptcy. Meanwhile, Jos. A. Bank could learn from Eddie Bauer in areas of licensing and international operations, both of which the men¡¯s clothing retailer doesn¡¯t have.

Jos. A. Bank said it plans to run Eddie Bauer separately after a deal closes with the label continuing to be run by its current CEO Mike Egeck, a 30-year industry veteran and formerly president of North Face. Jos. A. Bank said the combined company will have revenue of $1.9 billion with the deal immediately adding to its profit.

Jos. A. Bank ¡°has growth potential, so does Eddie Bauer,¡± said retail consultant Walter Loeb. ¡°Together they might be a very strong growth company. Eddie Bauer has turned around its business under current management. It could be a strong growth vehicle for (Jos. A. Bank.)¡±

While Jos. A Bank said it has the right to end its deal with Eddie Bauer to accept a ¡°superior proposal,¡± Friday¡¯s announcement reduced the chances of its possible sale to Men¡¯s Wearhouse. Men¡¯s Wearhouse shares fell 5.7%. It said it will evaluate its options regarding Jos. A. Bank. after the latest disclosure.

Jos. A Bank¡¯s stock, meanwhile, also dropped 1.5% after it gave a disappointing fourth-quarter profit forecast. It blamed a miss in its post-Christmas clearance sales and the snow storms and nationwide deep freeze in late December and early January. The company said it increased promotions, which hurt profit. Black, however, said comparable sales through Christmas rose 9%.

¡°That was the vote from the customer,¡± he said.

More news from Behind the Storefront:

Pricing expert says Amazon is asking the wrong question about subscription cost.

CVS decision may not be hard for other retailers to follow