For those who don't have health care, it's not too late to sign up for high-quality, affordable coverage: But they should act today. The deadline to get insurance is March 31, 2014. After that, they'll have to wait until November 2014 to sign up.

For those who dont have health care, its not too late to sign up for high-quality, affordable coverage: But they should act today.The deadline to get insurance is March 31, 2014. After that, theyll have to wait until November 2014 to sign up.

People are surprised at just how affordable Marketplace insurance can be.Six out of 10 uninsured Americans can get covered for $100 per month or even less  some, a lot less.

Security and peace of mind are just a click or call away.

You may even find that youre eligible for assistance to lower the cost of your premium.

You can sign up 24 hours a day, seven days a week at HealthCare.gov (which is working smoothly) or at 1-800-318-2596. You can even get in-person help in your own community: Just visit localhelp.healthcare.gov and punch in your zip code. If you are a Spanish speaker, you can access our Spanish-language website at CuidadoDeSalud.gov and you can get in-person help in Spanish, too.

Here in Ohio, husband and father of two Greg Brozeit went to HealthCare.gov looking for some relief from health-insurance premiums that had tripled.He found a plan, with his same insurer and comparable coverage, that cost $1,018 less each month than what he had been paying.And, unlike with his previous, more-expensive plan, Gregs family will now have pediatric dental coverage and vision care.

Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, there is choice and competition. In fact, consumers in Columbus now can choose from 29 qualified health plans. Before the Affordable Care Act, many had few if any real choices.

Unlike the old system, once you enroll, nobody can take your coverage away from you just because you get sick.And your insurance company cant charge you more just because you are a woman.

Whats more, by law, insurance companies now have to cover health services like doctors visits, prescription drugs, ambulatory care and hospital stays.Preventive care, including cancer and cholesterol screenings, is covered with no additional money out of your pocket.

Security for you and your family is only a click or call away: You just need to sign up by March 31 if you want marketplace coverage this year.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services