Gold climbed for a second session on Wednesday to its highest in four and a half months, as global uncertainty over economic growth and tensions in Ukraine burnished the metal¡¯s safe-haven appeal.

Weakness in equities and base metals, along with technical buying, propelled gold prices through resistance at $1,355 an ounce, traders said.

Other precious metals were higher too, with silver climbing over one per cent.

¡°There is quite a lot of attention on moves in other metal markets, like base metals,¡± said one Hong Kong-based precious metals.

¡°It is possible we are seeing some move from base to precious metals. We are seeing some technically fuelled buying as well,¡± he said.

¡°With temperatures rising in the market, people are sensing that gold¡¯s downside maybe more limited than some of the other markets.¡±

Spot gold had gained 0.6 percent to $1,357.11 an ounce by 0309 GMT, after earlier hitting $1,359.25 ¨C its highest since Oct. 29. The metal gained 0.8 per cent on Tuesday.

Bullion has gained 13 per cent this year following a 28 per cent drop in 2013, on escalating uncertainties around the world.

Ukraine¡¯s government appealed for Western help on Tuesday to stop Moscow annexing Crimea but the Black Sea peninsula, overrun by Russian troops, seemed fixed on a course that could formalise

 rule from Moscow within days.

China¡¯s first bond default and weak data on exports have stoked concerns about the health of the world¡¯s second-biggest economy. Copper and iron ore prices have been hit the hardest.

In a sign of investor confidence in bullion, gold-backed exchange-traded products saw inflows of $500 million in February, a reversal from 13 consecutive months of outflows, according to BlackRock.

Demand for physical bullion and jewellery has dropped off due to the jump in prices.

In China, the world¡¯s biggest gold consumer, local prices are at a discount to spot prices of about $3 an ounce. Demand has waned since the Lunar New Year holiday, before which prices were at a premium of $20.

Pakistan has extended its ban on gold imports to March 31, as it tries to stop smuggling to India where high import duties have made supplies scarce.