American Airlines said Monday the JetBlue Airways relationship was no longer necessary, leading it to break off the interline arrangement."Through the merger with US Airways, American¡¯s network along the East Coast provides greater connectivity and customer benefits and as a result, there is no longer a need to supplement our combined network coverage with the JetBlue agreement," spokesman Casey Norton said.JetBlue Airways said it was American Airlines' idea to break up their partnership."Not surprisingly, we were advised last week that American Airlines is going to break-off the interline relationship that we have had in place with American Airlines," JetBlue CEO Dave Barger told participants in a J.P. Morgan conference Monday in New York." Not surprising, when we consider what transpired with the recent integration with U.S. Airways. And as we look at the partnership which we were very pleased with, it¡¯s unfortunate. We¡¯re in the process of advising customers," Barger said.But the end of the relationship "is not overly meaningful when we think our material, when we think about the other partnerships that we have wrapped around it," Barger said.At one time, many believed that American Airlines and JetBlue would tighten their loose marketing arrangement, and some speculated that the two might eventually merger. American coveted the huge numbers of passengers that JetBlue carried into and out of New York Kennedy.But that was before American merged with US Airways, and American¡¯s management changed significantly.For whatever reasons, JetBlue and American announced Monday they were ending their interline agreement in which the two would exchange passengers at JFK and Boston. You won't be able to buy a single ticket that combines the flights of both carriers.In their somewhat terse releases, the carriers stated:

American Airlines and JetBlue Airways plan to terminate their interline traffic agreement and reciprocal frequent flyer program accrual agreement, which includes select routes from Boston Logan International Airport (BOS) and New York¡¯s John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK).

Beginning today, each airline will no longer accept new interline sales for travel on the other carrier. Effective April 1, customers will no longer earn miles or points when traveling on eligible routes operated by the other airline.

All American AAdvantage miles or JetBlue TrueBlue points already accrued through this partnership will be credited to customers¡¯ accounts and are not affected. The two airlines are working together to ensure these changes have little impact to customers.

Analyst Helane Becker of Cowen & Co. suggested that the split would be "more negative" for JetBlue than for American, which is picking up eastern passengers through its Dec. 9 merger with US Airways."This is not a complete surprise as we expected US Airways could provide American the feed they need in New York," Becker wrote in a research note Monday. "More to the point, we expect New York to be less important to American going forward as US Airways has a large hub in Philadelphia.'