The UK treasury on Tuesday made three appointments to the Bank of England's top team and shuffled seats on its two policy committees as part of an unprecedented overhaul of the 320-year-old central bank to be unveiled later by Governor Mark Carney.



The changes underscore how Mr Carney, a Canadian, is reshaping the BOE to meet the demands of its beefed-up role safeguarding the stability of the financial system, but they also introduce a note of uncertainty over looming decisions on when to raise interest rates.



The treasury said Ben Broadbent, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist who already sits on the BOE's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee, will take up the post of deputy governor for monetary policy July 1. Mr Broadbent, 49, replaces Charles Bean, who is retiring from the central bank after 14 years.



Nemat Shafik, deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund and a former senior official at the UK government's department for international development, will take up a new role August 1 as the BOE's deputy governor for markets and banking.



Ms Shafik, known by her nickname Minouche, will be responsible for reshaping the BOE's markets unit after it was hurt by allegations that some of its staff may have known about alleged attempts by bank traders to manipulate foreign-exchange rates. The BOE appointed a senior lawyer to lead a probe into the allegations last week, although an earlier internal investigation found no evidence of wrongdoing.



Anthony Habgood, chairman of publisher Reed Elsevier, will succeed David Lees on July 1 as chairman of the BOE's court, its board of directors, the treasury also said Tuesday.



The appointments come at a crucial time for the BOE. Alongside its role setting interest rates, the central bank was handed new responsibilities to oversee the financial system and police banks last year in a shake-up of financial regulation implemented by Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne.



Lawmakers on parliament's treasury committee, which scrutinises economic policy, have been pushing for a radical overhaul of the storied institution to make senior staff more accountable and reform the BOE's old-fashioned governance. A 2012 report into the BOE by Bill Winters, a former investment banker, criticised the central bank's "centralised and hierarchical" culture, saying it stifled challenges to senior staff's views.



Mr Carney is due to announce further details of how the BOE will be reorganised under his watch at a lecture in London later Tuesday. In past testimony to parliament, the governor has signalled that he sees reforming the BOE as a priority of his five-year tenure.



Alongside the new appointments, the treasury and the BOE said Spencer Dale, the BOE's chief economist, and Andrew Haldane, director of its financial stability wing, would swap jobs, with Mr Haldane joining the rate-setting MPC as chief economist and Mr Dale moving off to join the Financial Policy Committee, which tackles risks to the financial system. Paul Fisher, the BOE's executive director for markets, will lose his seat on the MPC to Ms Shafik, the BOE said.



The changes mean the MPC is getting an influx of new blood before crucial decisions on when to raise interest rates, which analysts said makes it harder to gauge how the MPC will respond if the economy continues to improve.



"What does all this mean for the direction of policy? Well the truth is it is hard to know, but it certainly adds a degree of raised uncertainty as to how the debate on the MPC will go," said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas.