KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA¡ªMalaysia called for satellite and radar data from 22 countries as the search for a missing airliner evolved to include a massive criminal investigation alongside the physical hunt for the plane. U.S. officials confirmed that they had examined the names of the passengers and crew of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 for possible connections to terrorist groups ¡ª none have been disclosed ¡ª but also expressed frustration that Malaysia had not asked for more extensive help from the FBI in investigating what is now thought to be a ¡°deliberate act.¡±

India said on Sunday it had suspended its involvement in the search for the plane until it becomes clearer where its ships and planes should be looking ¡ª or how its officials might support the criminal side of the probe. Privately, Indian officials were also upset over Malaysia¡¯s handling of the case and the massive area they were expected to scour, an example of how regional tensions and backbiting have plagued the investigation. Malaysia¡¯s investigation was given a new degree of focus over the weekend after experts determined that the plane had been deliberately flown off-course, its various communications systems severed.

After dropping off civilian radar, the plane tacked to the west, then remained in the air for as many as seven additional hours. Experts have suggested that the plane could have only been guided by a skilled aviator ¡ª willingly or under duress. Attention focused Sunday on the plane¡¯s pilot and co-pilot after authorities searched the homes of both men and removed a flight simulator built the pilot. Analysts tried to divine the significance of the fact that a satellite-based flight data system on the plane had been shut down before a crew member ¡ª or whoever was in the cockpit ¡ª signed off to Malaysian air traffic control with a seemingly innocuous ¡°All right, good night,¡± before the plane left Malaysian airspace. That detail, confirmed by Malaysian authorities, suggests the person at the controls continued to indicate all was fine even though the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, known as ACARS, had gone offline. The plane¡¯s transponder ¡ª a separate device that provides a precise location to radar systems ¡ª was shut down no long after. The sequence of events, analysts say, appeared consistent with an effort to conceal the aircraft¡¯s position and direction as it veered from its intended path northeast toward Beijing.

Ron Carr, who spent 39 years flying for the U.S. air force and American Airlines before becoming a professor at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, said that it is ¡°very rare¡± for ACARS units to malfunction but the system could be deliberately switched off through its circuit breaker. From a regional search a week ago for a presumed crash in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Thailand, the disappearance of Flight MH370 has now forced authorities to think along two equally complex tracks: how to find a plane that may have wrecked anywhere in tens of thousands of square kilometres of ocean and land, and how to home in on a theory about who steered it astray and why.

The new search zone now spans much of Asia and the Indian Ocean. At the same time, no evidence has surfaced indicating a perpetrator or motive for a criminal ac. Still, Malaysian officials are trying to collect radar and other data from nearly two dozen countries in hopes of picking up the airplane¡¯s vanished trail. They said Sunday that they were examining the flight simulator from the home of Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, the plane¡¯s captain. Investigators also searched the nearby home of the co-pilot, Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27. Malaysian Defence Minister Hishammuddin Hussein cautioned against jumping to conclusions. Zaharie and Fariq had not requested to be on the flight together. They also did not request extra fuel.