Certain financial & lifestyle choices may lead you toward a better future.

Some retirees succeed at realizing the life they want, others

Fate aside, it isn¡¯t merely a

stock market performance or investment selection that makes the difference. There

are certain dos and don¡¯ts ¨C

some less apparent than others

retirees don¡¯t know how much they don¡¯t know. They

careers with inadequate financial knowledge, and yet feel that they can plan retirement on their own. They mistake retirement income planning for the whole of retirement planning, and gloss over longevity risk, risks to their estate, and potential health care expenses. The more you know, the more your retirement readiness improves.

Retire knowing that you¡¯ll have to assume some risk.

Growth investing is increasingly seen as a necessity for retirees who want to keep ahead of infl ation. According to data and research compiled by the Social Security Administration, the average 65- year-old man will live to be 84 and the average 65-year-old woman will live to be 8

20-year retirement. The SSA also notes that roughly a quarter

past 90, and about 10% of them will live beyond age 95.

If these seniors rely on fixed-income investments for the balance of their lives, th ey may end up with reduced retirement income potential, and in turn a reduced standard of living. Look at the Rule of 72: if an investment is yielding 2%, it will take about 36 years to double your money.

but inflation should rise with them.

A generation ago, mature Americans were urged to gradually shift their portfolio assets out of stocks and into fixed-income investments. One old rule of thumb was to subtract your age from 100, with the resulting number being the percentage of your portfolio you should assign to

Today, retirees and retirement planners are reconsidering this thinking. As the

reported recently, one study of retirement money and longevity risk concluded that retirement funds may last longer if a retiree gradually increases the stock allocation within a portfolio about 1% per year from an initial range of between 20-50% to between 40-80%. The

concept here is that a retiree¡¯s stock allocation should be lowest when their ret

Who wants to retire with 10 years of mortgage payments ahead or a couple of car loans to pay off? Even if your retirement savings are