Enrollment in the Affordable Care Act hasnt gone as expected for Community Health Systems, said executive director Richard Perry.

The organization received a $100,000 grant to be used to hire two staff managers and education materials to help people get coverage through the health insurance marketplace before the deadline on March 31.

There are still many questions that individuals have, Perry said. The outreach is targeted to young individuals that dont have any insurance meaning college students. We have been enrolling individuals, but not to the extent that we should be.

The Winnebago County Health Department received a $750,000 grant from the state of Illinois. The department was one of 44 community-based organizations to receive funding, and submitted a detailed plan to the state on how it would conduct its education and enrollment activities. The organization partnered with OSF Saint Anthony Medical Center, Rockford Health System, SwedishAmerican Health System, Rock Valley College, Lifescape Community Services, United Way of Rock River Valley, Rockford Health Council, YWCA Rockford, City of Rockford Human Services, La Voz Latina and TASC, Inc.

According to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, about 71,443 individuals have signed up for Obamacare in Wisconsin, and about 113,773 have signed up in Illinois.

Perry said the organization needs to get into the colleges more, and have been working on plans to gear its efforts to college-aged students.

There are also a lot of individuals like senior citizens that ask questions in regards to how it will affect them and their Medicare, he said. Those are the educational pieces, and information, our certified application professionals have already.

About four professionals are working in Beloit, and there are about 10 in the entire organization, Perry said. Some of the confusion comes over the misconceptions of the health care law itself, Perry added.

There are so many mixed signals out there and people are scared to sign up, he said. A lot of those barriers are beginning to be broken down.

Perry mentioned a recent Internet clip featuring President Barack Obama and actor Zach Galifianakis on Galifianakis show Between Two Ferns that encouraged young people without insurance to sign up on the marketplace at www.healthcare.gov.

Sue Fuller, public information officer for the Winnebago County Health Department, said the department opened up a new enrollment center for residents to schedule an appointment that need assistance with the marketplace website.

The center is located at 555 N. Court St. in Rockford and is open Monday and Tuesday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Wednesday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Computer terminals are available until 4 p.m. every day, and an appointment is necessary. To schedule an appointment call 815-720-4247. Fuller said the plan is to keep the center open until June 30.

Enrollment in the federal marketplace began on Oct. 1, but there were several complications with the website that many had to re-enroll or couldnt complete their applications. The issues seem to have been fixed, and on March 11 the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services reported that 4.2 million Americans had signed up for coverage.

Perry said for those that arent sure about the marketplace, or what coverage to get, should call or visit Community Health Systems or another health care network.

Thats where the outreach enrollment counselors come in to help educate them, he said. Each health care network has navigators that can help individuals navigate the website. Call any health care facility and ask for help with the Affordable Care Act. Other agencies are well versed in navigating the Affordable Care Act website.

Those that arent insured, and can afford it, must get insurance by March 31 or face a fee starting next year.