This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

Chinese Internet giant Alibaba begin the much ... ballyhooed IPO roadshow today ... what is expected be one of the biggest money raising frenzies of all time ... the company is focused on more than to foreign investment ... David Rogers executive director of right at Columbia Business School ... an e joins us to talk about Alibaba and US strategy team in Oreo welcome the show great things happening I think a lot to look for the surprise to learn that Alibaba has the U S strategy in the polls still think it's a Chinese company ... and that's with it in a statement that isn't really that the case is that when all they are a big stretch for us investors ... shown any stronger ... you know heavy investment in the U S market I mean I think it's a very dicey for them to try to go to aggressively too quickly ... in direct ... competition with Amazon are keeping us margins ... profit margins are much thinner than what they use to doing the whole lot of growth opportunity in China ... I think they're gonna look at the growth in the near term is can you grow as the market itself grows in China ... and looking at other emerging markets where they may be competing with Amazon e Bay ... but it's a little more level playing field cousin of coming it's ... on ... or what about that what is the eleven eleven eleven main ... the absence of a beta site they put up I he looks very Americano I mean really it's a strange fact there ... I mean it it does not look like a Chinese company yes so they're bringing it in its American ... retailers to write new to smaller ... specialty retailers in the sink and use to ration to ... create different feel ... that's more interesting I hope this is a learning experiment ... Jack Ma is a real disciples Silicom Valley right he wants to keep learning and ... discovering from the U S market ... I don't see this especially with the sciences company and the post IPO ... as being a major part of the bottom line The ... I don't suspect that's really the French dairy at what point ... and let Alibaba around for several years I mean obviously a gigantic company ... but at what point do they really become ... just ... head to head direct with Amazon e Bay at sea I mean what what point do these companies ... really start well it's an interesting question because there's been a real wall you know and I it's not the fire wall of ... the Chinese government has the content but there's been an economic wall around China were basically various theories have been ... particularly in media and technology industries ... to keep out foreign competitors make it very hard for them to get a foothold ... in so you have ten say Alibaba the shoot ... acquittal economies have grown up ... I will actually see that strategy from the Chinese government changing soon I think you would have ... parallel two largest economies the world which parallel separates ... into a separate but it ... did not die in e-commerce giants and I think the competition it's gonna be a little bit of a Cold War nice proxy countries so to speak it well but was originally but in emerging markets ... we we know that come here ... to another coming at a reason awful lot of my absolute up a lot with lot of early investors are ... going to do well from the size of one of them ... the EOS who ... opera second about how the out was going to profit from the get well to do with custom and ice on Wednesday you know we're still waiting to see how this shakes out but y'all who stake in Alibaba may amount to about thirty six billion dollars looking at the numbers for an hour ... and that the current valuation of God was about thirty nine billion dollars ... so it's more than ninety percent of it ... which basically says the market I mean that's being devaluation delistings of the market ... he got markets increasingly release right now seen God who is a holding company for for Alibaba she's ... a ... it's a long way to look at right I hide it with leave it there thank you very much for coming to appreciate absolutes ...