After months of speculation, China announced over the weekend that it is expanding the range in which the yuan is allowed to trade in any given day against the US dollar. Beijing doubled the currency¡¯s trading band, which now means the renminbi can move up to 2% on either side of the PBoC¡¯s daily reference rate. This theoretically means that market forces will play a greater role in determining the value of the currency.

Unsurprisingly, the implied volatility of the yuan spiked higher today, rising to an 18-month high as the offshore yuan faltered in early trade. Later in the session, CNY opened around 0.12% lower against the dollar.

However, the overall implications of this move may not be as pronounced as today¡¯s volatility suggests. After all, the PBoC still sets a reference rate every day and that rate doesn¡¯t have to take into account the daily moves of the yuan within its trading band. In other words, when it comes to determining the value of the renminbi, the ability of the currency to move around in its trading band comes a distant second to the PBoC¡¯s morning fixing.

Furthermore, recent events highlight the fact that the PBoC remains firmly in control of the yuan. Over the last month or so the currency has been steadily declining in value, which at first glance may suggest that the market took control of the currency, but the decline was engineered by the PBoC, with the central intervening in the FX market to give the impression that the yuan isn¡¯t a one-way bet ¨C the currency has been on a broad upward trajectory since it was de-pegged from the US dollar in 2005.

Nonetheless, the move to widen the trading band may have short-term implications for the yuan, as evidenced by today¡¯s volatility. This, combined with the PBoC¡¯s desire to show that the yuan isn¡¯t a one-way bet, may drive away speculators that got used to the idea of a forever appreciating yuan, thereby weakening it.

Softness in recent Chinese economic data also doesn¡¯t bode well for the renminbi in the near-term. It raises concerns about growth, thereby encouraging the PBoC to weaken the yuan to support the economy. In saying that, it is likely to be a very gradual weakening as the PBoC attempts to maintain currency stability, hence its may only allow a slow increase in USDCNY¡¯s reference rate.