This was a net negative week for the US dollar. After posting strong unemployment numbers on Friday the USD was hit by a combination of strong European releases and weak numbers blamed on the harsh winter weather. Only the positive US jobless claims number, the lowest in three months, was able to break the Euro¡¯s appreciation on Thursday. It proved to be short lived as US PPI and Consumer sentiment were lower than expected.

The Fed will probably continue the tapering pace set by former chair Ben Bernanke. New chair Janet Yellen needs to tweak forward guidance to better reflect her less direct style. The inflation numbers are not where the Fed will like them to be. Employment has almost reached the Fed¡¯s target but now Yellen¡¯s Fed wants to make it less about the headline number and more about the underlying conditions which the lone figure might not be taking into consideration as measures of the recovery of the economy.

Next week central banks around the world will hold center court. Bank of Japan governor will speak on Wednesday ahed of Thursday¡¯s FOMC. There is little expectation of direct actions but the market has been warned about the Fed modifying its forward guidance significantly in the coming meetings to reduce the focus on Non-farm payrolls and the unemployment rate headline number.
 US Fed Expected to Raise Rates in 2015
 Fed Deputy Nominee Says Financial Stability Should Be Policy Focus
 Economists Say US Q4 Growth Could Be Revised Upwards
 Most Americans Missed Out On Recent Stock Rally
 OECD Says Global Growth Will Continue To Under Perform
 BIS Says Forward Guidance Can Lead to Excessive Risk Taking
 US Fed¡¯s Plosser Says Jobs Affected By Cold Weather

This article is for general information purposes only. It is not investment advice or a solution to buy or sell securities. Opinions are the authors; not necessarily that of OANDA Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, officers or directors. Leveraged trading is high risk and not suitable for all. You could lose all of your deposited funds.