The expected announcement just out from UK treasury office

Both will sit on the MPC with Shafik taking the place of Paul Fisher. Shafik will also attend FPC meetings

Shafik has been Deputy MD of the IMF since April 2011 where she oversees work on countries in Europe and the Middle East. She is also responsible for the IMF¡¯s $1 billion administrative budget, human resources for its 3,000 staff and oversees the IMF¡¯s training and technical assistance for policy makers around the world.

The BBC sums it up here

This from the BOE

As the Bank¡¯s Deputy Governor for Monetary Policy, Dr Broadbent will have specific responsibility for the Bank¡¯s research and analysis of the UK economy in support of Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) decisions, and for the provision and distribution of bank notes that are secure against the threat of counterfeiting. Dr Broadbent will sit on the Bank¡¯s Court of Directors, the Monetary Policy Committee, and the Financial Policy Committee. He is also responsible for chairing MPC in the event of the Governor¡¯s absence.

As Deputy Governor for Markets and Banking, reporting directly to the Governor, Dr Shafik will provide greater focus at the very top of the Bank on these two core policy areas. Dr Shafik will be appointed by the Governor to the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) under Section 13(3)(b) of the Bank of England Act 1998 as ¡®the person who has executive responsibility within the bank for monetary policy operations¡¯, filling the seat currently held by Paul Fisher, the Bank¡¯s Executive Director for Markets. The Government has indicated its intention to place this appointment on a statutory basis in due course. Once formalised, Dr Shafik will hold seats on the MPC, the Financial Policy Committee (FPC), and the Bank¡¯s Court of Directors. In addition, the Court of the Bank will appoint the Dr Shafik to the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority. Dr Shafik will therefore join the Governor and the Deputy Governor for Financial Stability, Sir Jon Cunliffe, as a member of all three main policy committees.

In her role as Deputy Governor for Markets and Banking, Dr Shafik will be responsible for reshaping the Bank¡¯s operations and balance sheet, including ensuring robust risk management practices and helping to lead the design and execution of an eventual exit from quantitative easing by the MPC. She will also oversee the implementation of reforms to the Bank¡¯s Sterling Monetary Framework, lead the Bank¡¯s work to build fair, efficient and effective financial markets, and review and strengthen the Bank¡¯s Markets and Banking areas, including a comprehensive review of the Bank¡¯s essential market intelligence function.

Dr Shafik will also be jointly responsible for the Bank¡¯s international surveillance, analysis and engagement. She will represent the Bank in international groups and institutions, including as G7 Deputy and in the Bank¡¯s engagement with the IMF, overseas central banks and the BIS.