General Motors and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration both are under fire for for failing to act sooner on faulty GM switches now linked to 12 deaths,and the finger pointing apparently has begun.

GM knew of the switch problem in 2004, and recalled the cars last month that use the switch.

The acting head of NHTSA, in an interview on Wednesday with Bloomberg News, said that the agency didn't force a recall earlier because of lack of "timely information" from GM.

"If we had that information, if GM had provided us with timely information, we would have been able to take a different course with this," David Friedman, acting administrator for NHTSA, told Bloomberg.

GM is facing a federal criminal probe and inquiries from NHTSA, but now U.S. House and Senate committees are tangling NHTSA in the investigative web. The committees plan hearings on both GM's and NHTSA's handling of the ignition switch defect now linked to 31 crashes and 12 deaths.

GM has said it is fully cooperating with NHTSA's investigation of the recall and is conducting an internal investigation of the company's handling of the switch defect as well. CEO Mary Barra has said, "We will hold ourselves accountable and improve our processes."

NHTSA, meantime, is under attack from safety advocates, including former NHTSA head Joan Claybrook and Center for Auto Safety head Clarence Ditlow, for what they say was a failure to act.

GM's timeline leading to the recall shows it was aware of a problem as early as 2004. And NHTSA told GM 2007 about switch complaints it had gotten, but did not begin a formal probe that could result in a recall.

"We took several efforts to look into this data," Friedman told Bloomberg. "At the end of the day, with the data we had at that time, we didn't think that was sufficient to open up a formal investigation."

GM has recalled 1.62 million vehicles worldwide, 1.37 million in the U.S., for the faulty ignition switch that can cause the engine to shut down and disable safety systems, including airbags. They are the 2005-07 Chevrolet Cobalt, 2007 Pontiac G5, 2003-07 Saturn Ion, 2006-07 Chevrolet HHR, 2006-07 Pontiac Solstice and Saturn Sky.