This article is from the archive of our partner .

Over the weekend, the search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 became a criminal investigation as Malaysian officials said they had "conclusive" evidence that the flight had been hijacked. They also said that a final message had been received from the pilot after the plane's signaling apparatus had been disabled, raising suspicion that the flight was intentionally diverted by crew. There have also been numerous reports this morning that plane may have flown as low as 5,000 feet, in order to avoid all radar detection, a maneuver that would require considerable skill from the pilots, while also putting the plane itself in considerable danger, as it is not designed for long travel at that altitude.

In a press conference today, Malaysia Airlines officials say they now believe it was the co-pilot who spoke those final words. The Acting Transport Minister Hussein Hishammuddin added during the conference that Malaysia is requesting renewed assistance from the countries involved in the search, saying:

Malaysia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent diplomatic notes to all countries involved in the search and rescue operation. This includes two groups: first, countries in the search corridors; and second, countries from which we are seeking assistance and expertise. For countries in the search corridors, we are requesting radar and satellite information, as well as specific assets for the search and rescue operation. We are asking them to share their land, sea and aerial search and rescue action plans with the Rescue Co-ordination Centre here in Malaysia, so that we can co-ordinate the search effort. We have asked for regular updates, including daily reports on both search activities, and details of any information required from Malaysia.

Twenty-six countries are now involved in the search, and Australia has taken the lead in searching the Indian Ocean.

Officials added that Interpol and FBI have been involved in the search since the beginning and that nobody aboard the plane has tried to make contact via cell phones, though telephone companies are still checking their records.