An early rally on Wall Street fizzled Friday as global bourses finished mixed amid a range of worries that included Italy¡¯s messy budget dispute with Brussels and slowing Chinese growth, reports AFP from New York.

US stocks opened strongly following good earnings reports from Procter & Gamble, American Express and others, but the market lost steam at midday. All three major indices had slumped more than one per cent on Thursday.

¡°In a week when developments seem more mixed than bearish, markets are struggling to stabilize from an early-October shock that began in Bonds and ended in Equities,¡± JPMorgan Chase said in a research note.

The analysts said earnings would be a positive catalyst for stocks over the next two or three weeks, but warned of a medium-term hit after the period of ¡°peak¡± earnings growth ends.

The Nasdaq was the worst performing of the three major indices, ending down 0.5 per cent at 7,449.03, following a session in which it swung more than 150 points.

The S&P 500 finished with a small loss, while the Dow edged higher.

In Europe, the Frankfurt and Paris bourses declined, while London rose as Italy¡¯s fight with Brussels over its budget plan sparked worries about the eurozone.

On Thursday, the European Commission formally warned Italy that its budget plans for 2019 were a serious concern, demanding ¡°clarifications¡± over Rome¡¯s ¡°unprecedented¡± deviation from EU rules.

Late Friday afternoon, Moody¡¯s downgraded Italy¡¯s debt rating by a notch, citing the ¡°material weakening in Italy¡¯s fiscal strength, with the government targeting higher budget deficits for the coming years,¡± as well as debt holding near the current 130 per cent of GDP ¡°rather than start trending down as previously expected.¡±

Earlier Friday, Asian stock markets also traded mixed, with Shanghai bouncing back from early losses despite data showing Chinese economic growth slowed to its weakest level in nine years.

The world¡¯s second largest economy expanded 6.5 per cent year-on-year in the July-September quarter as a campaign to tackle mounting debt took its toll¡ªalong with trade frictions with the US.

It marked the worst performance since the start of 2009

Shanghai equities nevertheless finished the week with a rally after a rare joint intervention by some of China¡¯s top financial officials.

However the pronounced slowdown weighed on markets elsewhere because China is a crucial driver of global economic growth.

¡°The Chinese economy is slowing¡ªbut that¡¯s down to a deleveraging process and concerns about trade and a global slowdown, as interest rates rise,¡± CMC Markets analyst Michael Hewson said.