08.00 That's it for today. Please see our live blog for Saturday for information of developments of this "unprecedented aviation mystery".

06.57 So it seems the plane was still in the air when the first reports of its disappearance emerged.

06.33 The press conference has wrapped up with no questions. To sum up, the PM confirmed that plane has flown a long way off course for up to 7.5 hours after losing contact with the ground and that it gradually had its systems turned off. He said it could have continued on two different paths; along a corridor above the southern Indian Ocean and - astoundingly - towards Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan. As a result, searches in the South China Sea have ended.

The Malaysian PM was very careful not to use the word "hijacked" but that comms system was "disabled", consistent with "deliberate action".

He said:"In view of this latest development the Malaysian authorities have refocused their investigation into the crew and passengers on board."

06.30 He said the reports that the plane had definitely been hijacked were premature. "I wish to be very clear, we are still investigating possibilites."

"Authorities have refocused their investigation into crew and passengers."

06.27 PM Razak says MH370's movements are "consistent with deliberate action by someone on the plane".

"We are unable to confirm the precise location of the plane when it last made contact with satellite."

MH370 was last detected at 8:11am on Saturday Malaysian time, 7 hours after initial estimate.

06.23 He is now talking about the initial phase of the investigation and the extension of the search to take in the Andaman Sea. "We can say with a high degree of certainty that the aircraft communication reporting system was disabled before the aircraft reached the east coast of the peninsula Malaysia."

06.20 PM Razak has arrived. He says "This is an excruciating time for the families of those on board".

"It is widely understood that this has been a situation without precedent."

"We understand the desperate need for information... but we have a responsibility to only release information that has been corroborated."

06.03 Still waiting for the press conference, but it seems the PM will be reading a statement and not taking questions.

05.41 Still no sign of the Malaysian PM.

05.00 Hopefully the press conferece by Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, due to start in half an hour, will provide some clarity.

04.27 A word of caution: Dean Nelson in Kuala Lumpur has spoken to the head of the investigation who denies any conclusive evidence of hijacking and said it was just one of a number of lines they're looking at.

"It is not conclusive. I'm heading the investigation and nobody is saying that. It's not true. We are looking at the possibility, we're looking at all possibilities. We're doing every profile of the passengers and crew but there is no firm evidence or leads so far," said Azharuddin Abdul Rahman.

04.12 AP reports: A Malaysian government official says investigators have concluded that one of the pilots or someone else with flying experience hijacked the missing Malaysia Airlines jet. The official says no motive has been established, and it is not yet clear where the plane was taken. The official said that hijacking was no longer a theory. "It is conclusive."

He said evidence that led to the conclusion were signs that the plane's communications were switched off deliberately, data about the flight path and indications the plane was steered in a way to avoid detection by radar.

04.00 AP is reporting that a Malaysian official says investigators have concluded the missing jet was hijacked and steered off-course.

03.58 New York Magazine has a thoughtful piece on what a missing plane full of people means in a world where we rarely get lost.

"We live in a hyper-rational, data-driven time; geeks are our kings and queens. When something inexplicable happens, we are in awe, suddenly, of concepts that the ancients took for granted: the suffering of innocents, supernatural causes, and twists of fate."

03.43 Dean Nelson, our reporter in Kuala Lumpur, says Malaysian PM Najib Razak will speak about the missing flight in about 90 minutes. The press conference will be his first on Flight 370 since the day it disappeared.

03.40 The suggestion that the plane flew for five hours after losing contact with the ground has raised questions about what the passengers were doing during that time.

<noframe>Twitter: Marisa Thomas - If the Malaysian airliner flew for hours why didn't anyone on board call their families like they did during 9-11? <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MH370" target="_blank">#MH370</a></noframe>

03.12 Slate has put together a clever rundown of how to steal a Boeing 777.

02.41 Rupert Murdoch's earlier tweet suggesting the plane was being hidden in Pakistan has raised eyebrows on Twitter.

<noframe>Twitter: Andrew Kaczynski - Appears <a href="http://www.twitter.com/rupertmurdoch" target="_blank">@rupertmurdoch</a> has some "deep thoughts" on the plane. <a href="http://t.co/aeWBxC7zIP" target="_blank">http://t.co/aeWBxC7zIP</a></noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Flynn Murphy - Mystery solved <a href="http://www.twitter.com/CarryonJW" target="_blank">@CarryonJW</a> "<a href="http://www.twitter.com/rupertmurdoch" target="_blank">@rupertmurdoch</a>: ...Maybe no crash but stolen, effectively hidden, perhaps in Northern Pakistan, like Bin Laden."</noframe>

02.08 While we await more information, Reuters is also running a good summary of the investigation into the missing plane.

01.36 Here is some more detail from the Reuters report:

Analysis of electronic pulses picked up from a missing Malaysian airliner shows it could have run out of fuel and crashed into the Indian Ocean after it flew hundreds of miles off course, a source familiar with official US assessments said.

The source, who is familiar with data the US government is receiving from the investigation into the disappearance of the Malaysia Airlines plane, said the other, but less likely possibility, was that it flew on toward India.

The data obtained from pulses the plane sent to satellites had been interpreted to provide two different analyses because it was ambiguous, said the source, who declined to be identified because of the ongoing investigation.

But it offers the first real clues as to the fate of Flight MH370, which officials increasingly believe was deliberately diverted off its scheduled course from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

01.32 Reuters is reporting that analysis of satellite pulses picked up from the missing plane indicates that it may have crashed in the Indian Ocean.

01.30 Rupert Murdoch has weighed in on the plane's disappearance.

<noframe>Twitter: Rupert Murdoch - World seems transfixed by 777 disappearance. Maybe no crash but stolen, effectively hidden, perhaps in Northern Pakistan, like Bin Laden.</noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Rupert Murdoch - 777. Still think this a reminder that US and China should be working more closely on Muslim extremist threat.</noframe>

01.08 CBC has produced an interesting map of other planes that have vanished without a trace over the past 50 years.

00.30 Our reporter Tom Phillips notes that the loss of the plane has led to tightened security for everyone passing through KL airport.

<noframe>Twitter: Tom Phillips - Enormous, snail-paced queues at <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23kualalumpur" target="_blank">#kualalumpur</a> immigration this morning. However they are checking passenger IDs it now takes an age <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MH370" target="_blank">#MH370</a></noframe>

00.09 The US Pacific Command has confirmed that the USS Kidd destroyer will proceed to the Strait of Malacca to help in the search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

23.30 With plenty of theories as to what happened to the flight but very few facts, it seems investigators need all the help they can get at the moment. The Mirror is reporting that Uri Geller has been ask to lend his psychic powers to the search for the missing plane.

23.00 A US official has sounded an ominous warning to the Washington Post:

"The facts are all over the place. It's looking less and less like an accident. It's looking more like a criminal event."

22.39 Here is our latest story on the fate of MH370, in which Raf Sanchez explains that US and Malaysian investigators now say they believe ¡°human intervention¡± could have played a role in the disappearance.

21.56 CNN is now reporting that the flight took one of two paths, either over the Bay of Bengal or the Indian Ocean.

21.13 The New York Times is reporting that the plane experienced "significant changes in altitude" after it lost contact with ground control, and altered its course more than once as if still under the command of a pilot, quoting American officials familiar with the investigation.

Radar signals recorded by the Malaysian military appear to show the missing airliner climbing to 45,000 feet, above the approved altitude limit for a Boeing 777-200, soon after it disappeared from civilian radar and made a sharp turn to the west.

The radar track, which the Malaysian government has not released but says it has provided to the US and China, then shows the plane descending unevenly to an altitude of 23,000 feet, below normal cruising levels, as it approached the densely populated island of Penang, one of the country¡¯s largest.

19.59 Inmarsat has issued the following statement regarding Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Routine, automated signals were registered on the Inmarsat network from Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 during its flight from Kuala Lumpur.

This information was provided to our partner SITA, which in turn has shared it with Malaysia Airlines.

18.55 Our correspondent in Washington, Raf Sanchez, says US authorities are also looking into whether lithium batteries in the cargo hold might have overheated and burned into the aircraft's frame. Batteries were blamed for the crash of a UPS cargo plane in Dubai in 2010.

18.50 More from the BBC, which is reporting that the plane may have been flying for more than five hours after it disappeared.

They report that a satellite system operated by London-based telecommunications company Inmarsat received an automated signal from flight MH370 at least five hours after the plane was reported lost.

The signal could only have been sent if the plane was intact and powered, and may explain why search teams have moved to the Indian Ocean.

Locations on a map during a search and rescue (SAR) operation to find the missing plane

18.45 AP news agency quotes an unnamed US official as saying the MH370 transponder stopped ¡°about a dozen minutes before a messaging system on the jet quit.¡± The official calls it ¡°key evidence for [possible] human intervention¡± and are investigating possible acts of piracy. This is the first time since the plane went missing nearly a whole week ago than anyone has used the word piracy.

17.12 BREAKING: Investigators are increasingly certain that someone with aviation skills was responsible for the change in course, a Malaysian government official has said

A US official said investigators are examining the possibility of "human intervention" in the plane's disappearance, adding it may have been "an act of piracy." The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it also was possible the plane may have landed somewhere.

16.58 The BBC is reporting that the MH370 may have been flying for more than five hours after it disappeared. It is believed the plane was sending automated signals to a satellite system long after radar contact was lost.

This would mean the jet could have flown more than 1,000 miles beyond its last confirmed position.

A Royal Malaysian Air Force Navigator captain, Izam Fareq Hassan (C) looks at a map onboard a Malaysian Air Force CN235 aircraft during a search and rescue (SAR) operation

16.28 Our correspondent Malcolm Moore has outlined five possible scenarios - and their releitive merits/downfalls - of what has happened to the plane based on what we know: explosion/crash, depressuration/hypoxia, terrorism, hijacking, sabotage.

16.16 Here¡¯s a map by the Washington Post of where satellites are looking for MH370.

16.10 The same AP report says that some experts believe it is possible that one of the pilots, or someone with flying experience, hijacked the plane and committed suicide by plunging the aircraft into the sea. This has happened before.

Mike Glynn, a committee member of the Australian and International Pilots Association, said he considers pilot suicide to be the most likely explanation for the disappearance, as was suspected in a SilkAir crash during a flight from Singapore to Jakarta in 1997 and an EgyptAir flight from Los Angeles to Cairo in 1999.

16.09 An AP report that cites Malaysian investigators strengthens the case that the authorities believe someone with aviation skills was responsible for the unexplained change in course. The Wall Street Journal and Reuters cite US officials saying the same thing.

The official, who declined to be identified because he is not authorized to brief the media, said only a skilled person could navigate the Boeing 777 the way it was flown after its last confirmed location over the South China Sea.

The Malaysian official said it had now been established with a "more than 50 percent" degree of certainty that military radar had picked up the missing plane.

On Thursday, an American official said the plane remained airborne after losing contact with air traffic controllers because it was sending a signal to establish contact with a satellite. The Malaysian official confirmed this, referring to the process by its technical term of a "handshake."

It now appears increasingly certain that the plane didn't experience a catastrophic incident over the South China Sea as was initially seen as the most likely scenario.

15.45 Andrew Pasztor of the Wall Street Journal says that there is a real possibility that the Malaysia Airlines jet landed somewhere.

This is Pasztor on Charlie Rose saying investigators suspect there someone had a "nefarious reason" to take control of the aircraft - one theory among others. He added: there are suspicions that "there were manual adjustments to the flight management computer when the aircraft changed direction.¡±

He says investigators are most perplexed at the lack of debris as if a plane goes down over the sea there is always debris.

14.49 India's navy has said it has nearly doubled the number of ships and planes deployed to search the Andaman Sea

It said six ships and five aircraft were now scouring for any sign of the vanished plane in the Andaman Sea, which surrounds India's remote Andaman and Nicobar group of islands that lie far to the country's southeast.

India had earlier deployed three ships and three aircraft in the search for Malaysia Airlines plane.

14.15 BBC's science correspondent Jonathan Amos says his sources tell him that the plane sent an "automated ping" five hours after take off. "you cannot get a ping like that if the plane had crashed," he said. The ping data - which has been passed to Malaysian authorities - will give a rough altitude and location.

13.39 Apparently following the US theory that the Malaysia Airlines jetliner was deliberately flown towards westwards, Indian aircraft combed Andaman and Nicobar, made up of more than 500 mostly uninhabited islands, for signs of the missing plane.

Popular with tourists and anthropologists alike, the islands form India's most isolated state. They are best known for dense rainforests, coral reefs and hunter-gatherer tribes who have long resisted contact with outsiders.

The Indian Navy has deployed two Dornier planes to fly across the island chain, a total area of 447 miles by 32 miles, Indian military spokesman Harmeet Singh said in the state capital, Port Blair. So far the planes, and a helicopter searching the coast, had found nothing.

"This operation is like finding a needle in a haystack," said Singh, who is the spokesman for joint air force, navy and army command in the Andaman and Nicobar islands.

The Defence Ministry said the Eastern Naval Command would also search across a new area measuring 15 km by 600 km along the Chennai coast in the Bay of Bengal.

The shape of this area, located 900 km west of Port Blair, suggested the search was focusing on a narrow flight corridor.

13.03 Wall Street Journal tells of the personal stories of those on borad the missing airliner.

As night fell last Friday in Kuala Lumpur, businessman Philip Wood hurried to gather his bags for a trip to Beijing. He had confused the dates, but his girlfriend in China texted him to make sure he got on the plane.

A group of Chinese artists capped off their exhibition at a local cultural center in Malaysia's capital city with a day of sightseeing and a banquet lunch of duck soup, fried shrimp and pork in brown sauce.

Norli Akmar Hamid finished packing for her long-overdue honeymoon and posted a photograph on Facebook of her cat trying to sneak into her suitcase. The cat chewed the lining near the administrative assistant's neatly folded blue T-shirt and beige towel.

All of them boarded Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 late Friday night and flew away shortly after midnight in the tropical night sky toward Beijing.

12.14 Malaysia has uploaded onto Facebook the full text of its transport minister's opening remarks in his press conference a couple of hours ago.

12.10 Singapore Today has retweeted a map plotting the possible flight path as detailed by military radar cited by Reuters unnamed sources who said the plane may have been deliberately flown West via "waypoints" towards the Andaman Islands.

It should be noted that in a press conference just before 10am GMT (see below), Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said that the Reuters report had not been confirmed.

12.00 Other then the obvious one, there are still many, many unanswered questions about the missing MH370 plane.

At the press conference just before 10am GMT (see below), Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein appeared particularly nervous at when asked to discuss possible investigations into the MH370 pilot.

He said the pilot's house had "not yet" been searched and said "certain information" was being looked into regarding the pilot. Unverified reports said that the house had been raided.

The pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, was considered a distinguished aviator. But stories have emerged that in 2011 his co pilot Faruq Abdul Hamid, 27, invited passengers into the cockpit, where he reportedly smoked, breaking rules of the airline.

Mr Hussein also refused to give details about when searches began over the waters to the west of the Malay peninsula. The air force have said it was on Saturday, the day MH370 disappeared, suggesting authorities knew, but did not say, early on that they thought plane had gone west, not east.

11.50 Tom Phillips, the Telegraph's Shanghai correspondent, has written a story on the most recent developments of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane.

The hunt for the missing flight MH370 took a dramatic turn on Friday when there were claims the plane had been ¡°deliberately diverted¡± from its course and a senior Malaysia minister confirmed search teams were looking ¡°further and further afield¡± for the missing Boeing...........

11.43 A spokesperson for Rolls-Royce, which built the jat's engines and the transmission system within them, has said:

¡°Rolls-Royce continues to provide its full support to the authorities and Malaysia Airlines. Rolls-Royce concurs with the statement made on Thursday 13 March by Malaysia's Transport Minister, Hishammuddin Hussein regarding engine health monitoring data received from the aircraft [that the last transmission from the aircraft was at 0107 which indicated that everything was normal].¡±

Very interesting Bloomberg schematic on the sheer number of planes that have vanished since WWII. Diagram also includes planes that were found after extensive searches, including one that was found by climbers in Bolivia inside a glacier.

Memorials are being erected for the passengers on the missing Malaysia Airlines flight.

10.26 Our correspondent Malcolm Moore has outlined three possible scenarios based on what we know:

1. An explosion. This is possible becasue around 20 minutes after takeoff jet stopped transmitting its engine dat, another 23 mintues after that all contact was lost but the lack of debris casts doubt on this and the US also believes that the plane's satellite antenna was trying, but not succeeding, to establish an uplink more than five hours after take-off.

2. Depressurisation/hypoxia. In this scenario, a crack in the plane leads to the cabin losing pressure and the passengers, flight attendants, and eventually the pilots losing consciousness from lack of oxygen. Meanwhile, the plane continues to fly on autopilot for several more hours. The scenario is not unprecedented: in 1999, a private jet with Payne Stewart, the golfer, on board flew for four hours before crashing. In 2005 a Helios Airways Boeing 737 crashed 25 miles from Athens after running out of fuel. The pilots, attendants and passengers had been knocked out when the cabin depressurised. But If the plane did not suffer an immediate catastrophe, there is no reason for the data transmission system and the plane's transponder, which sends its location, to be off while the autopilot functioned.

3. Hijacking/sabotage. This is an increasingly plausible scenario is that the plane was hijacked or taken over by its pilots. The timing of the plane's disappearance, between two air traffic control zones, fits this theory, as does the radio silence. This would also explain why the mobile phones of some passengers were connecting, but not being answered. On Friday, Reuters reported that satellite pings from the plane's antenna suggested it was on a course to the Andaman islands. But there has been no demand from hijackers, or contact from terrorists.

09.58 Mr Hussein shakes head (yes) when asked if they're looking into possibility that crew or pilots involved. He says there are a few scenarios that Authorities are looking at: sabotage, pilot flew "under duress" or an "explosion"

Malaysia Airlines Commercial Director Dunleavy prepares for a briefing for the family members of passengers onboard Flight MH37 in Beijing

09.55 Responding to briefings by unnamed US officials that say the plane was deliberately flown west to India's Andaman Islands, Malaysian Transport Minister said he would not release information unless it has been corroborated. This is odd as Malaysian authorities have done exactly that over the past few days. Either Malaysia does not give US claims much credence or they are tightening up their PR.

09.45 Mr Hussein says he cannot rule out hijacking.

09.41Mr Hussein said that authorities are not 100 per cent on the military's claim that that the plane turned round. This is why the search continues over the South China Sea.

09.39 Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein says that the search is expanding east into South China Sea and West into Indian Ocean. Haystack getting bigger but no needle.

09.37 Malaysian transport minister says "circumstances have forced us to widen our search". He said that normal investigations narrow over time but "this is not a normal investigation"

Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, thrid left, attends a special prayer for a missing Malaysia Airllines plane at a mosque near Kuala Lumpur International Airport.

09.19 Relatives of those on board Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 hope and wait.

09.16 Just to recap, in six days the search has sifted in focus from:
 east of Malaysia and the South China Sea (where the aircraft last communicated with air traffic base stations)
 west of Malaysia and the Strait of Malacca (becasue the military radar suggested the plane may have changed direction)
 as of yesterday, the Indian ocean as US investigators suspect someone knew what they were doing and was flying west.

09.07 After almost a week of false leads, conflicting reports and shifts of focus, news on the mystery missing plane should be taken with a healthy dose of salt but a live blog on a missing plane is not the place to hold back too much on speculation. If the US investigators are right and someone deliberately flew Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 west towards the Andaman Islands there are two possible explanations: sabotage by the pilot or a hijack by someone else.

08.51 News from earlier this morning that two US officials told ABC News that they believe two on board communication systems were shut down separately on Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, strengthens the case for foul play.

The data reporting system, they believe, was shut down at 1.07am, while the transponder - which transmits location and altitude - shut down at 1.21am.

The report says the US team "is convinced that there was manual intervention", which means it was likely not an accident or catastrophic malfunction that took the plane out of the sky.

08.37 For reference here is a tweeted map that shows India's Andaman Islands and their surrounding sea

08.20 An exclusive Reuters report citing military radar-tracking evidence suggests the jet "was deliberately flown across the Malay peninsula towards the Andaman Islands"

The report quotes two sources who say that an unidentified aircraft that investigators believe was Flight MH370 was following a route between navigational waypoints - indicating it was being flown by someone with aviation training - when it was last plotted on military radar off the country's northwest coast.

The last plot on the military radar's tracking suggested the plane was flying toward India's Andaman Islands, a chain of isles between the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal, they said.

Waypoints are geographic locations, worked out by calculating longitude and latitude, that help pilots navigate along established air corridors.

A third source familiar with the investigation said inquiries were focusing increasingly on the theory that someone who knew how to fly a plane deliberately diverted the flight, with 239 people on board, hundreds of miles off its intended course from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

"What we can say is we are looking at sabotage, with hijack still on the cards," said that source, a senior Malaysian police official.

08.13 Good morning. The search continues for Malaysia Airline flight 370 that went missing six days ago now. Multiple US media reports, citing American officials, said the Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777's communication system continued to "ping" a satellite for a number of hours after it disappeared off radar with 239 people aboard, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.