The 495-page final report found that the pilot failed to ¡°read back the assigned frequency¡±, which was ¡°inconsistent¡± with his training, despite 18,000 hours of flying experience. ¡°Good Night, Malaysian Three Seven Zero¡± was the last recording of the MH370 by pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah as the plane left the Malaysian airspace and later turned off course. Since then the cause of one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries has never been solved. And today after investigators released a probe report in to the missing airliner, which disappeared on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014, families of the missing 239 people on board are still no closer to finding out the truth.

Writing about the last words of the 53-year-old pilot, the report noted: ¡°The last radio transmission ¡°Good Night Malaysian Three Seven Zero¡± was spoken by the PIC (Pilot in Command). ¡°However, he did not readback the assigned frequency, which was inconsistent with radio-telephony procedures.¡± But the radio-telephony communications conducted by the PIC and the flight office (FO) with the Air Traffic Controllers ¡°revealed no evidence of anxiety or stress detected in the conversations¡±. Investigators said Mr Shah and his first officer, Fariq Abdul, did not show signs of psychological stress which could suggest they had deliberately crashed the plane.

Kok Soo Chon, head of the MH370 safety investigation team, said investigators examined the history of the pilot and the first officer, and they were satisfied with their background and training and mental health. He said: ¡±We are not of the opinion it could have been an event committed by the pilots," before adding they were not ruling out any possibility since the in-air turn back was done manually and the systems in the plane were also manually turned off. It comes after it emerged Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 was deliberately turned around before it crashed into the ocean. Mr Chon added: ¡±We cannot exclude that there was an unlawful interference by a third party.¡±