¡°The Gulf of Thailand is pretty much saturated at this point,¡± said Cmdr. William Marks, the spokesman for the United States Seventh Fleet. ¡°We¡¯re now going over the same areas.¡±

A Chinese state science agency posted satellite photographs on its website on Wednesday that appeared to show three large objects floating in the South China Sea off Vietnam, not far from the aircraft¡¯s planned flight path; the agency said the images were taken on Sunday. It was not clear whether they had any significance for the search. In recent days, a number of reports have emerged of possible debris from the plane in the Gulf of Thailand or the South China Sea, but on closer inspection, the objects ¡ª including an oil slick, a wooden raft and the lid of a large crate ¡ª have been found to be unrelated.

An American military official discounted the Chinese images, saying that United States satellites would have seen the object and did not. It was unlikely, the official added, that a large piece of the aircraft would be floating, and in any case, its location was in a high-traffic area near the many ships and aircraft searching for the missing jetliner.

¡°I cannot possibly believe that image is a valid image,¡±¡¯ the official said.

The Malaysian government has come under fire for releasing incomplete and sometimes inaccurate or contradictory information about the aircraft and the progress of the search. When news of the military radar traces surfaced on Tuesday in a Malaysian newspaper article quoting General Rodzali, other senior officials denied the report.

Though Malaysia generally has good relations with China, the home country of most of the passengers on the missing plane, the confusion and crossed signals are drawing increasing criticism from there. The Global Times, a nationalist-leaning Chinese newspaper controlled by the Communist Party, published a commentary on Wednesday taking Malaysia to task for failing to release information in a timely and reliable manner. Dozens of Chinese reporters are in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, looking for answers, as are many relatives of passengers.

¡°Malaysia¡¯s grave inconsistencies on this vital information cannot but be a devastating blow to the outside world¡¯s confidence in its core role in search and rescue,¡± The Global Times said.