Men¡¯s Wearhouse (NYSE:MW) said Tuesday it agreed to acquire smaller rival Jos. A. Bank (NASDAQ:JOSB) for $1.8 billion, ending a months-long takeover battle between the suit sellers.

The deal, valued at $65 a share, will create the fourth largest U.S. men¡¯s apparel retailer, with more than 1,700 domestic stores, 23,000 employees and sales of $3.5 billion.

Men¡¯s Wearhouse expects the transaction to immediately contribute to earnings in the first full year of the merger. The transaction is expected to close by the third quarter.

Houston-based Men¡¯s Wearhouse will finance the deal with cash plus financing from Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) Merrill Lynch and J.P. Morgan Chase (NYSE:JPM).

In a joint statement, Jos. A. Bank and Men¡¯s Wearhouse said their merger will generate $100 million to $150 million in annual synergies realized over three years. Jos. A. Bank¡¯s store banner will remain in place.

Shares of Men¡¯s Wearhouse jumped 4.8% to $57.20 on news of the agreement. Jos. A. Bank rallied 3.9% to $64.26.

¡°Together, Men¡¯s Wearhouse and Jos. A. Bank will have increased scale and breadth, and Jos. A. Ban¡¯s strong brand and complementary business model will broaden our customer reach,¡± said Doug Ewert, president and chief executive Men¡¯s Wearhouse.

As part of the deal, Jos. A. Bank has terminated its proposal to acquire Eddie Bauer. The Hampstead, Md.-based company recently announced a deal to buy Eddie Bauer for $825 million but reserved the right to scrap the offer if a superior transaction emerged.

Jos. A. Bank is also withdrawing its previously announced tender offer to purchase up to $300 million of its common stock.

Robert N. Wildrick, chairman of Jos. A. Bank, said the board has been ¡°rigorously focused on pursuing a path for our shareholders that maximizes value creation¡± and ¡°committed to pursuing a range of strategic alternatives to achieve that goal.¡±

Tuesday¡¯s deal for $65 a share reflects a 56% premium over Jos. A. Bank¡¯s share price in October, when the company began a buyout tug-of-war with Men¡¯s Wearhouse.

The two retailers traded offers in the fall, and Men¡¯s Wearhouse raised its own bid several times. Late last month, Jos. A. Bank rejected an offer of $63.50 a share but accepted Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s invitation to enter formal talks. The two sides entered into a non-disclosure agreement and drafted a merger deal about a week ago.

Merrill Lynch and J.P. Morgan acted as financial advisors to Men¡¯s Wearhouse. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Financo advised Jos. A. Bank.

Eminence Capital, a major shareholder in both retailers, praised the merger agreement and announced the withdrawal of its nominees for Jos. A. Bank¡¯s board. The activist firm had been pressuring the companies to strike a deal.