London: Gold prices rose on Wednesday as concerns that a stand-off between pro-Russian separatists and government troops in Ukraine could escalate fuelled demand, and ahead of scheduled comments from the Federal Reserve later.

Investors are braced for the possibility that dovish comments from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen at her congressional hearings could further undermine the dollar, which hit a 6-1/2-month low against a currency basket on Tuesday.

That would typically be expected to boost gold, which benefits from looser monetary policy and a soft dollar.

Spot gold rose 0.4 per cent to $1,312.30 (Dh4,816.14) an ounce by 0924 GMT. It touched a three-week high of $1,315.60 on Monday.

US gold futures for June delivery were up $4 an ounce at $1,312.60.

¡°There is a growing risk premium because of what¡¯s happening in Ukraine,¡± Citi analyst David Wilson said. ¡°That¡¯s providing some signs of support.¡± ¡°Chinese buying is limiting the downside as well as geopolitical tensions,¡± he added. ¡°I would expect gold to stay around these levels until that tension eases away, but I wouldn¡¯t expect it to move dramatically lower from there.¡± In Ukraine, both sides have been burying their dead as the country slides further towards war, with supporters of Russia and of a united Ukraine accusing each other of tearing the country apart.

On the wider markets, European stocks edged lower as a sell-off on other markets unsettled investors and results from brewer Carlsberg and bank Societe Generale showed the Ukraine crisis was starting to hurt large western companies.

The dollar was little changed ahead of Yellen¡¯s comments.

¡°Markets will be attentive for any indication on the Fed¡¯s thinking in terms of rate hike timing and pace,¡± BNP Paribas said in a note.

Gold buying in Asia picked up on Wednesday as markets re-opened after public holidays in Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea, dealers said.

¡°Decent demand was seen at the onset by Japanese traders,¡± bullion house MKS said in a note. ¡°Loco London gold managed to rally through $1,310 and maintain this level into the Chinese open.¡± Gold prices in Shanghai were trading $2 an ounce above the global benchmark, reversing the trend from recent months when prices were largely at a discount. Despite the price premiums, demand was muted, dealers said.

Chinese buying has been subdued as a weaker currency has discouraged importing banks from purchasing big quantities.

China¡¯s demand for gold bars fell nearly 44 per cent in the first quarter of 2014 from year ago, while total gold consumption edged up about 0.8 per cent, the China Gold Association said on Wednesday.

Among other precious metals, silver was up 0.8 per cent at $19.68 an ounce, while spot platinum was down 0.2 per cent at $1,448.99 an ounce and spot palladium was down 0.2 per cent at $812.47 an ounce.

The platinum group metals have been underpinned by a miners¡¯ strike at major producers Anglo American Platinum, Impala Platinum and Lonmin, which began on January 23 and has affected 40 per cent of global output.

¡°The market may be close to another leg higher if the strike is not resolved soon,¡± HSBC said in a note.