This was Mark Carney's first appearance before the Commons Treasury committee as governor of the Bank of England and it was not exactly a triumph. Central bank governors are supposed to be cautious in their language but, in Carney's case, caution often seemed to merge into obfuscation. He has a reputation for brilliance, and he may well be far cleverer than the rest of us, but as he tried to explain his inflation "knockouts" (nothing to do with Stuart Hall) and why monetary loosening wasn't loosening, you could tell members of the committee were getting a little exasperated. Still, the session ended amicably. It's early days, and they seem happy to give him the benefit of the doubt.

Here are the key points.
 Carney expressed caution about the recovery, saying it was in its "early days". When the Labour MP Pat McFadden asked him if he agreed with George Osborne that the economy has turned a corner, Carney declined to say that he agreed. This is how he replied when McFadden first asked the question:

To give you a fancy answer, which is the second derivative is certainly positive, the economy has stopped shrinking, it was stagnating, it has now picked up, there has been an acceleration in recent quarters. There are signs that the growth is relatively broad-based across consumption, returns from housing investment, exports ... Some improvement in sentiment around investment, business investment, but there is not yet the follow-through, as there normally isn't at this stage in recovery. So there has been a change in the pace of activity, without question, and it is welcome. My point has been that this is welcome but that we should not be satisfied with this.

And when McFadden pressed him again on whether the economy had turned the corner, he again refused to say yes.

This may get reported as Carney hinting that he disagrees with George Osborne, but he said he did not want to be dragged into a political controversy and it sounded more as if he were just playing it safe. Later the Conservative MP Mark Garnier said (correctly) that Osborne's claim was that the economy was "turning the corner", not that it had turned the corner.
 Carney said that the government's austerity programme (or "fiscal adjustment", as he put it) had been a drag on growth.
 He said the Bank of England could call for mortgage lending to be curbed if it became worried about a house price boom. When McFadden asked him about rising house prices, Carney said this was primarily a matter for the Bank's financial policy committee. This is what he said when McFadden asked him what the FPC could do in the event of a problem:

In simple terms, it begins with more intensive supervision of mortgage lending, making sure that underwriting standards are maintained, so that we do not see a return to more than 100% loan-to-value ratios, that there are appropriate standards on loan to income ... It can extend all the way to sectoral capital requirements, additional capital, that banks would have to hold against certain types of lending, including mortgages. And in the middle there would be ¨C I think it should be a question of open debate ¨C whether there should be a consideration, if there were a case where there were vulnerabilities in the judgment of the financial policy committee, whether there should be some guidance provided in terms of loan-to-value ratios, loan-to-income ratios. We do not have powers of direction in that regard, but certainly we retain the ability to observe and recommend if necessary.
 Carney conceded that his new policy of "forward guidance" on interest rates, complete with "knockouts" (see below), could be seen as a loosening of monetary policy. He was very reluctant to admit this, and one exchange on this started to sound a bit farcical. (See 10.57am.) Carney said he preferred to describe his policy as "more stimulative at the margins". But eventually he conceded:
 He said that his new "forward guidance" policy did not mean the Bank of England was abandoning its 2% inflation target.
 He said his "knockouts" would add more clarity to his policy. (From what the MPs were saying during the hearing, the committee is unlikely to agree.)
 He said that he had more confidence in the Bank's future forecasts.

For the record, here is an extract from the Bank of England news release issued a few weeks ago explaining what the new "forward guidance" policy means, and how the "knockouts" work.

In particular, the MPC intends not to raise Bank Rate from its current level of 0.5% at least until the Labour Force Survey headline measure of the unemployment rate has fallen to a threshold of 7%, subject to the conditions below. The MPC stands ready to undertake further asset purchases while the unemployment rate remains above 7% if it judges that additional monetary stimulus is warranted. But until the unemployment threshold is reached, and subject to the conditions below, the MPC intends not to reduce the stock of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank reserves and, consistent with that, intends to reinvest the cash flows associated with all maturing gilts held in the Asset Purchase Facility. The guidance linking Bank Rate and asset sales to the unemployment threshold would cease to hold if any of the following three ¡®knockouts¡¯ were breached: ¡¤ in the MPC¡¯s view, it is more likely than not, that CPI inflation 18 to 24 months ahead will be 0.5 percentage points or more above the 2% target; ¡¤ the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) judges that the stance of monetary policy poses a significant threat to financial stability that cannot be contained by the substantial range of mitigating policy actions available to the FPC, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in a way consistent with their objectives.