DUBLIN ¡ª Yes, they have more bananas.

Fruit supply companies Chiquita of the United States and Fyffes of Ireland said Monday they had agreed to merge to create the world¡±s biggest banana supplier.

The all-shares agreement means the two companies will become ChiquitaFyffes PLC, be traded on the New York Stock Exchange and be headquartered in Dublin, a more tax-efficient corporate base.

The companies said the deal, which requires shareholder and regulatory approval in Ireland and the United States, would generate $40 million in pre-tax savings through more efficient operations.

Current Fyffes and Chiquita shareholders each would own half of a combined operation expected to generate $4.6 billion in annual sales.

The two companies said the merger would create a banana behemoth that ships more than 160 million crates worldwide, about a quarter more than either of their main rivals, Dole and Del Monte. ChiquitaFyffes also would become the world¡±s No. 3 distributor of pineapples and melons.

Shares in both companies surged, particularly Dublin-based Fyffes, because Monday¡±s deal valued Fyffes shares at $1.66.

Fyffes rose 46 percent to $1.80 on the Irish Stock Exchange. Chiquita rose nearly 13 percent to $12.20 in New York.

Fyffes, pronounced ¡°Fifes,¡± is Europe¡±s biggest banana importer and the oldest industry brand, dating to 1929; Irish wits have long cited the company¡±s presence here as proof that Ireland really is a banana republic. The company enjoys exclusive export rights for the Central American country of Belize.

David McCann, Fyffes¡± chairman, will become chief executive officer of the combined company, while the chief executive of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Chiquita, Ed Lonergan, will become its chairman.

Lonergan said their ¡°natural strategic partnership¡± would ¡°provide customers with a more diverse product mix and choice.¡±

However, shoppers used to seeing bananas bearing the bold blue stickers of Chiquita or Fyffes aren¡±t expected to notice any difference there. The two brands are staying separate.