The final words from the cockpit of missing flight MH370 suggest everything was normal ¨C just minutes before the plane disappeared.

One of the pilots said: ¡°All right, good night¡± in response to a message from Malaysia air traffic control.

The comment came as the jetliner with 239 people on board passed flew over the South China Sea from Malaysian to Vietnamese air space.

Malaysian Airline chiefs revealed the message yesterday as they also released the first picture of pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah.

The search has now been widened to waters off both sides of the Malay peninsula following possible sightings of the plane from at least nine witnesses. One was from a New Zealander on an oil rig off Vung Tau in southern Vietnam. He sent an email saying he had seen a ¡°burning object¡± about 200 miles out to sea.

FOLLOW OUR LIVE BLOG FOR ALL THE LATEST NEWS

Malaysia¡¯s defence and acting transport minister Hishammuddin Hussein admitted: ¡°As time passes I fear that the search and rescue will become just a search, but we will never give up hope.¡±

He denied the investigation was mired in confusion. But relatives frustrated by the lack of information pelted airline staff with water bottles at a news conference in Beijing, shouting: ¡°Tell us the truth!¡±

The plane went missing early on Saturday about an hour after taking off from Kuala Lumpur. No distress signal was apparently sent or received.

Investigators have not ruled out terrorism or a bungled hijacking.

Another theory is that a sudden decompression caused everyone on board to black out and the plane continued on automatic pilot till it ran out of fuel.

Bizarrely, it has been reported that some passengers¡¯ mobile phones are still ringing out. The search now covers 

around 27,000 square nautical miles.

The airline said in a statement it was ¡°shocked¡± by reports about the plane¡¯s co-pilot, First Officer Fariq Ab Hamid. The Mirror told yesterday how a South African tourist and her friend were invited to sit in the cockpit with him as he smoked and chatted them up during a flight in 2011. An airline official said the allegations were being taken ¡°very seriously¡±.

In another twist, convicted British bomb plotter Saajid Badat told a New York terror trial this week he gave a shoe bomb to a group of Malaysians who were planning a 9/11 style hijacking in December 2001.

Badat, 34, from Gloucester, was giving evidence by video link against Osama bin Laden¡¯s son-in law Sulaiman Abu Ghaith, 48, who is accused of conspiring to kill Americans and supplying terrorists.

There is no suggestion of any link to the missing plane at this stage, and investigators say terrorism is just one of many lines of inquiry.