In 2016, 29 percent of Boomers arrived in public transport via Boom Bus. What¡¯s green, fun, and leaves you directly inside the venue? Boom¡¯s very own public transport, of course!

There are four very good reasons why the Boom Bus is the best way of getting to Boom. Firstly, because it will get you into the spirit of the festival before you event get there. Secondly, because it picks you up from the airport and drops you directly at the Boomland. Thirdly, because it is good for your wallet. And fourthly, because it helps decrease CO2 emissions and therefore helps preserve our dear Mother Nature. Simple as that.



Eco-Letter 2016 Fact: 211 Boom Buses were used to transport Boomers in 2016 from Switzerland, France, Spain and Portugal.

For more information about the Boom Bus, go HERE.

There are several other options for getting to Boomland by using public transport! For more information take a look at our "Getting to Boom" page HERE.

No doubt cars are a fast and convenient way of getting to Boom. So turn this into an opportunity for adventure and share your journey with other Boomers!



It's comfortable to arrive by car too - so with keeping in mind this convenience, and the fact we are committed to the preservation of the environment, we have teamed up with Liftshare, which means Boomers can team up and travel to the festival together. The platform is a simple and effective way of putting your car up for sharing or looking for a lift. Car sharing also helps reduce queues, lower costs and make new friends along the way!



Eco-Letter 2016 Facts: 4,341 members joined, of which 901 added a journey to share and 881 requested to share a journey. According to Lex Barber, from liftshare.com, the 97 percent of journeys that involved cash payments or alternating driving showed ¡°a really high level of trust between your festival-goers.¡± In total, ¡°225,833 were saved in petrol costs, 445,64 tonnes of CO2 were saved and 3,649,792 km were taken off the road!¡±.

To offer a ride or look for one, go to: https://liftshare.com/uk/community/boom

It all began in 2008 when Belgian Boomers Joost and Stan got in touch to say they wanted to cycle to Boom. 2,700km and 40 days later they arrived at the festival.

We were extremely impressed by their positive attitude and apetitie for adventure. ¡°Everybody should do it!¡± said Stan enthusiastically!

In sync with their action, we launched the Boom By Bike Initiative in 2010 to promote a more conscious, environmental and fun-tastic way to travel to Boom Festival.

Years later, Boomers are still inspired by this story. We believethis is another positive approach to actively promoting environmental awareness. The wheels have been set in motion, literally - and now, the Boom by Bike Initiative is in full flow...

With each edition, we are witnessing more and more Boomers who are biking it to the festival, many of whom have cycled great distances. People really want to travel to Boom by Bike!

In 2018, our positive intentions are spinning into action. We are highly motivated to support all Boom cyclists and are excited to present for the second time, the Boom Bike Village!

Be part of this new adventure, be a Boomcyclist! 



Make sure to take a look at our Frequently Asked Questions as they contain precious information which will help you prepare your journey!