On Friday, Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co. failed to make an 89.8 million yuan ($14.7 million) interest payment, the first domestic corporate bond default in the history of the People¡¯s Republic of China.

The company, in the red for three straight years, narrowly avoided missing an interest payment on its five-year, billion yuan obligation in January 2013. Then, the Shanghai municipality leaned on banks to not press claims on overdue loans so that Chaori could pay bondholders.

This time, Shanghai officials sat on their hands after the company issued a warning on Tuesday that it was able to pay only a small portion¡ªless than five percent¡ªof the interest coming due. Even more remarkably, authorities let Chaori default during the annual meeting of the National People¡¯s Congress, a particularly sensitive moment in the Chinese political calendar.

Analysts correctly praised Beijing for not rescuing the solar panel company. After all, the missed payment for the first time introduced the concept of risk in the $1.4 trillion corporate bond market, where investors were blindly chasing offerings with the highest coupons regardless of the creditworthiness of issuers.

Central government technocrats were smart to pick a marginal issuer for the first failure, yet there is nonetheless cause for concern. Merrill Lynch, in aresearch note issued on the Wednesday after the company¡¯s warning, called the then-potential default China¡¯s ¡°Bear Stearns moment.¡±

That assessment angered Xinhua News Agency. ¡°Indeed,¡± the official Chinese organ noted in a commentary, ¡°it is hard to grasp how a potential default of the bond¡ª163 million U.S. dollars in principal and rated as junk by Shenzhen-based Pengyuan Credit¡ªcould be likened to the systemically important investment bank Bear Stearns with hundreds of billions of dollars on its balance sheet at the time.¡±

Clearly, Chaori is not Bear Stearns, but what the Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists were referring to was the July 2007 disclosure of problems at two Bear Stearns subprime hedge funds. That event is considered to have ignited a burn that eventually triggered the global panic the following year. As the strategists noted, ¡°We doubt that the financial system in China will experience a liquidity crunch immediately because of this default but we think the chain reaction will probably start.¡±

Will it? Most observers think not. ¡°Though China¡¯s financial system faces many serious challenges, the government has far greater power to prevent a disorderly collapse than its Western counterparts did,¡± notes Reuters¡¯s Peter Thal Larsen, writing on the Dealbook site of the New York Times. ¡°If fears of a Bear Stearns moment have any value, it is to serve as a reminder to the Chinese authorities which mistakes they must avoid at all costs.¡±

Yes, Chinese authorities have the benefit of hindsight, but they face an almost-impossible situation. Even if they make every decision correctly, they will, in all probability, be the victim of what Philip Li of China Chengxin International Credit Rating last week called ¡°a domino effect.¡±

Consider the challenges. It is no secret why Chaori defaulted. The solar industry in China is notorious for overcapacity and weak prices. The country, of course, is littered with Chaoris, but solar panel overproduction is just the beginning of the story. In the ¡°green¡± sector, you will find excess wind turbine factories, for instance. And there are far too many coal mines, steel mills, smelters, and ship yards. Need glass or cement? China is certainly the place to go to hook up with an idle producer. Gross overproduction helps explain why the producer price index, which measures factory gate prices, fell in February for the 24th consecutive month.

Up to now, Beijing has been able to bail out loss-making industries, but that has to change because the economy is slowing fast. The manufacturing sector, measured by the HSBC purchasing managers¡¯ index, contracted in both January and February. In the first two months of this year¡ªaggregated for statistical purposes to eliminate the distortion caused by the Lunar New Year holiday¡ªexports fell 1.6% over the same period in 2013. The number of urban job openings, as evidenced by surveys announced by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, fell both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter in the third and fourth quarters of last year. Tellingly, city jobs in Q4 fell a stunning 13.7% from the preceding quarter.

If the economy continues to erode, there must be a series of defaults. Expect troubles soon, especially in the second half of this year. Haitong Securities, China¡¯s second-largest brokerage, estimates that 5.3 trillion yuan of trust products will come due this year.

Businesses could have an especially hard time rolling over obligations. Chaori, as small and unimportant as it is, appears to be already affecting China¡¯s credit markets. In the last few days, four debt issuers postponed offerings, and at last count at least 6.6 billion yuan of domestic bond sales have been delayed. One of the disappointed companies, Suining Chuanzhong Economic Technology Development, blamed Chaori, saying it had ¡°triggered severe upheaval in the bond market.¡± Observers think high-yield issuers will soon be paying 200 basis points more for money.

¡°In the U.S., it took about a year to reach the Lehman stage when the market panicked and the shadow banking sector froze,¡± the Bank of America Merrill Lynch note pointed out last week. ¡°It may take less time in China as the market is less transparent.¡±

In any event, there is now too much debt for Beijing to handle. Since the end of 2007, the amount of corporate bonds has risen more than 10 times. Assets in trusts¡ªmost of them risky¡ªskyrocketed 46% last year. Even though China¡¯s economy, if properly reported, is about half that of the U.S., the amount of Chinese corporate debt could overtake America¡¯s this year.

China, in recent years, has created too much indebtedness too fast. Chaori¡¯s default on Friday is a warning of what will inevitably occur next.

Follow me on Twitter @GordonGChang and on Forbes