(Mar 13): China¡¯s industrial-output, investment and retail-sales growth cooled more than estimated in January and February, signaling an economic slowdown that makes the government¡¯s 2014 expansion target harder to reach.



 Factory production rose 8.6 percent in the two-month period from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing, compared with the 9.5 percent median projection of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.



 Premier Li Keqiang today said there¡¯s some flexibility around the nation¡¯s 7.5 percent growth goal this year and that the government¡¯s key concerns are jobs and livelihoods. Even so, the slowdown may add to chances of stimulus and test the Communist Party¡¯s commitment to give market forces a bigger role in the world¡¯s second-largest economy while clamping down on overcapacity, debt and pollution.



 ¡°The fairly dramatic slowdown is unusual in Chinese economic history of the last decade¡± and today¡¯s figures are ¡°shockingly weak,¡± Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said in a note. ¡°It points to a major deceleration of momentum in the beginning of 2014.¡±



 The Shanghai Composite Index pared gains after the data and was up 0.7 percent at 2:17 p.m. local time. Weaker Growth China combines data for industrial output, retail sales and fixed-asset investment for January and February, citing distortions from the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, whose timing differs each year.



 Factory-production growth was the weakest for the first two months of the year since 2009 and compared with a 9.7 percent advance in December. Retail sales gained at the slowest pace for the first two months since 2004 and were projected to rise 13.5 percent, based on the median estimate in a survey of economists. Sales increased 13.6 percent in December.



 The median projection for fixed-asset investment growth was 19.4 percent, after a full-year 2013 pace of 19.6 percent and 21.2 percent in the first two months of last year. The investment expansion was the weakest for a January-February period since 2001.



 Previously released data for February showed exports unexpectedly plunged by the most since the global financial crisis, producerprice deflation deepened and credit growth trailed estimates.



 Tolerance Level

 ¡°Since we say the GDP growth target is about 7.5 percent, ¡®about¡¯ means it has a certain degree of flexibility,¡± Li said at a press briefing in Beijing today after the end of the annual meeting of the National People¡¯s Congress, referring to gross domestic product. ¡°A bit higher or a bit lower, we have a level of tolerance here.¡±



 Credit Agricole¡¯s Kowalczyk said Li¡¯s highlighting of the ¡°soft nature¡± of the target ¡°will give him some flexibility to absorb the current slowdown without automatically reaching for stimulus measures as he would have in the past.¡±



 Li said earlier this month that pollution is a major concern, pledging to ¡°declare war¡± on smog and close coal- fired furnaces. The country will reduce emissions and impose a ceiling on energy consumption, Li said in his work report to the NPC.