With help from Joanne Kenen, Jennifer Haberkorn and Brett Norman

ADMINISTRATION PROPOSAL PUSHES FOR FEWER HEALTH PLAN CANCELLATIONS 〞 An Obama administration proposed rule released late Friday would sharply limit health plan cancellations, just several months after a wave of canceled policies led to a political firestorm that put the White House on its heels. Under the rule, insurers would have broader latitude to adjust the benefits and limits in their policies without considering them canceled and replaced by new products. Instead, changes like updating co-pays and deductibles or eliminating annual limits to comply with Obamacare would constitute ※modifications§ to existing plans, rather than totally new offerings. ※We believe these proposed standards will minimize unnecessary terminations of coverage, ensuring predictability and continuity for consumers, while reasonably providing issuers the flexibility to make necessary adjustments to coverage,§ the administration wrote in the proposal. The proposed rule: http://go.cms.gov/OujxqF

-Insurers would be required to provide a broader network of doctors and health care providers for consumers. CMS will examine whether plans offer ※reasonable access§ to hospital systems, mental health services, oncology providers and primary care. http://go.cms.gov/1itPqLl

-The Obama administration would be able to identify state laws that conflict with Obamacare＊s efforts to set up navigator programs in each state.

-Insurers would get a break in calculating their administrative costs to determine whether they owe customers a rebate. The law requires that insurers spend 80 percent of premium dollars on medical care, but the administration intends to ※raise the ceiling.§

GOP OBAMACARE REPLACEMENT ON THE HORIZON? 〞 House Republicans are coalescing behind an alternative to Obamacare, and it＊s got a lot of familiar features: more high-risk pools, broader use of health savings accounts and empowering small businesses to band together to increase their market power. The plan, reported Sunday by The Washington Post, presents an election-year health care alternative to the health law and has been making the rounds among senior Republicans in recent days. According to the Post, the House GOP will get a briefing on the plan next month from Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers. http://wapo.st/1kVX9od

Welcome to PULSE on this snow-glazed Monday. We＊re taking bets on which will happen first 〞 the end of open enrollment in Affordable Care Act plans or the last snow of the season.

※It＊s only black and white because the PULSE is color blind.§

ENROLLMENT MADNESS 每 That＊s the theme of the week for the White House, which plans to use the NCAA basketball tournament to draw in new customers for health insurance exchanges. In its daily media update, the White House confirmed that the effort would include ※online videos from athletes and coaches, as well as social media blitzes, and interviews on sports radio. The pro-ACA push will also include a ※16 Sweetest Reasons to Get Covered§ bracket, released at the same time the president＊s NCAA bracket comes out.

--KING JAMES TO BOOST OBAMACARE 每 The pro-ACA ads featuring Miami Heat superstar LeBron James will go into rotation this week on ESPN, ABC, TNT and NBA-TV. The 30-second spot features a smiling LeBron speaking to the camera and, at one point, holding a basketball with the hashtag ※#getcovered§ on the side. ※You never know when you might take a hit,§ he says, before pitching HealthCare.gov. The ad: http://bit.ly/1dZBSFu; PULSE＊s told ya so moment: http://politico.pro/1gDpFDN.

** A message from AHCA. Skilled nursing has been tasked with a challenge: continue to improve quality care for millions of Americans and do so on razor-thin 1.8 percent margins. Even still, the long term and post-acute care profession continues to improve lives by delivering solutions for quality care. We are AHCA. And we are the solution. Learn more at ahcancal.org/solutions. **

ARK. JUDGE TOSSES 12-WEEK ABORTION BAN 〞 A federal judge in Arkansas Friday struck down the state＊s law banning abortion at 12 weeks of pregnancy. District Court Judge Susan Webber Wright said the law prohibited a woman＊s constitutional right to elect to have an abortion before a fetus＊s viability outside of the womb. The law, which banned the procedure at 12 weeks gestation except in cases of rape, incest and emergencies, was passed in March 2013 after state lawmakers overrode Democratic Gov. Mike Beebe＊s veto. The ruling upheld the part of the law that requires women seeking an abortion to undergo an abdominal ultrasound.

NEW OBAMACARE POLICY INCLUDES LGBT PROTECTIONS 每 The Obama administration will require most health insurance plans to provide the same benefits to legally married gay couples that they do to heterosexual couples, according to a policy released today. Insurers are not required to offer family coverage under Obamacare 〞 they can just offer individual policies 〞 but if they do, the nondiscrimination rules will cover same-sex married couples, states guidance posted to the CMS website. The rules apply to all plans offered on the Obamacare exchanges. Under the rules, however, employers are still allowed to define who qualifies as a spousal dependent for group health plans. Grandfathered policies are not covered. Plans must comply with the rules starting in 2015.

BIG WEEK FOR MEDICAID EXPANSION 每 It could be a bellwether week for a slew of states considering Obamacare＊s expansion of Medicaid. Nebraska lawmakers are scheduled to vote, a year after coming just shy of corralling the filibuster-proof margin they need to advance the measure. Maine lawmakers are likely to send an expansion bill to Gov. Paul LePage＊s desk for the second time, a measure he＊s sure to veto again. And the New Hampshire House could take up a Senate-passed measure that embraces a private-sector version of expansion that already has the support of Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan. http://politico.pro/1icoMFR

RNC CHIEF: OBAMACARE IS ＆TOTAL POISON＊ 每 Republicans are showing no signs of shrinking from a fight over Obamacare in the fall elections. Party chair Reince Priebus called the law ※complete poison§ during an appearance on CNN＊s ※State of the Union,§ and said it would be a primary target for the GOP. He also credited the Florida special election victory for Republicans to the party＊s emphasis on the health law. POLITICO＊s Jonathan Topaz reports: http://politi.co/1d4e3i2

HOSPICE GROUP OPPOSES CARVE-IN每 National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization opposes the recent MedPAC proposal to ※carve-in§ hospice care in Medicare Advantage 〞 i.e. having the MA plan take the clinical and financial responsibility for hospice. NHPCO says such a change would limit choice for patients and families. It may also cost families more, as the proposal could mean extra co-payments or cost-sharing, and it could be financially harmful for the hospices too, if they aren＊t assured of getting the baseline reimbursement rate. http://bit.ly/1e9AMXT

LABOR H SPENDING 每 More than 1000 health and education organizations from all 50 states signed on to a letter asking appropriators to bring FY 2015 back to FY 2010 level of $163.6 billion to reverse what they called an erosion of essential services. The letter and 27 pages of signatures: http://bit.ly/1knmS60

Conservative interest groups pouring money for anti-Obamacare ads in swing districts have Democrats fretting that they＊re being outgunned, The New York Times reports: http://nyti.ms/1mbFAAA

Boston Mayor Thomas Menino has been diagnosed with ※advanced§ cancer, The Boston Globe reports: http://b.globe.com/OsOmfd

Also in the Globe, Massachusetts＊s medical marijuana law is giving rise to medical practices specializing in evaluating patients for pot prescriptions: http://b.globe.com/1gD5eHc

Health law expert Tim Jost has a detailed take on the Friday＊s proposed rule, posted on the Health Affairs Blog: http://bit.ly/1nwlB1i

ACA enrollment among Latinos and young people is lagging in California as the deadline approaches, according to Kaiser Health News: http://bit.ly/1iT4dBW

State attorneys general are urging pharmacy chains to follow CVS＊s lead and stop selling tobacco products, The New York Times reports: http://nyti.ms/OmKmx3

** The skilled nursing and assisted living profession is not a bystander in the budget debate. Our long term and post-acute care providers know that smart policies result in better care and more balanced budgets. With operating margins teetering dangerously at 1.8 percent, we know that actions must take the place of rhetoric. Our profession is offering solutions to issues that make a difference in patients' lives and Medicare's budget, such as reducing hospital readmissions, improving patient outcomes and increasing quality care in America's skilled nursing and post-acute care centers. But these solutions are just the beginning. We are AHCA and NCAL. And we are the solution. Learn more at ahcancal.org/solutions. **

** A message from PhRMA: This week, PhRMA members announced their commitment to providing more transparency about medicine costs. Soon, our member companies＊ DTC television advertisements will direct patients to information about medicine costs, including the list price of the medicine, out-of-pocket costs or other context about the potential cost of the medicine and available financial assistance. The biopharmaceutical industry will also launch a new platform that will provide patients, caregivers and providers with cost and financial assistance information for brand-name medicines, as well as other patient support resources. It＊s our mission to find lifesaving treatments. It＊s our responsibility to help patients access them. Learn more. **