Well, it might be happening with Herbalife. Or at least, it might be starting. The company is being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission, and while it¡¯s putting on a brave face publicly, management cannot be happy with these latest developments. As I write this the stock is down about 8% on the day. Bill Ackman, who has claimed the company is an illegal pyramid scheme that will eventually be shut down, has to like what he is seeing.

Last month, when announced its new convertible bond, I discussed some of the implications of the deal. In some respects the bond appeared designed to squeeze short-sellers by creating a new group of investors potentially willing to pay to borrow the stock. But since Herbalife made arrangements, essentially, to lend phantom stock to hedge funds, the deal did not (at least initially) create any type of squeeze.

I did note, however, that one of the central tenets of convertible investing¡ªthat a bond holds its value reasonably well even when the underlying stock gets beaten up¡ªmight not apply to Herbalife. Part of the problem, as one of the smartest convertible guys I know said, is that Herbalife¡¯s volatility might be ¡°existential¡±¡ªin other words, there¡¯s concern that the issue leading to the stock¡¯s sharp decline could conceivably destroy the company. This is what we call ¡°bad volatility.¡± Good volatility applies exclusively to a stock¡¯s valuation, but not to its legitimacy as a going concern.

Other issues with Herbalife are the company¡¯s debt load, which while seemingly manageable now could become highly problematic with a major stock decline, and some of the potential complications with borrowing the stock for hedgers. If short-sellers pile on a falling Herbalife stock¡ªsomething they have been known to do¡ªconvertible hedgers will become increasingly dependent on the phantom stock, or borrow facility, arranged by the company. Those hedgers unwilling to take this risk are likely to take their lumps and sell the bonds, accepting a certain moderate loss instead of exposing themselves to a potentially much larger one if the borrow facility should come unglued.

Early indications show that the convertible market is indeed worried about how this may play out. Herbalife¡¯s convertibles are looking for their new level with the stock hovering around 60 (about an 8% decline on the day). The bonds were quoted in the mid-80¡¯s when the stock was down around $57, though it subsequently bounced back to around $60 and lifted the bond quote a couple of points. As I write this the stock is slightly above 60 and the bonds would probably be quoted, for an educated guess, around the 87-88 level.

This isn¡¯t good. The bonds were originally priced at 100 with the stock at 69.02. So the stock is down about 13% and¡ªguess what¡ªso, it appears, are the bonds. Convertibles are supposed to do a lot better than this, although, in fairness, you can¡¯t completely indict a bond off short-term performance. Still, an investor would typically hope that a convertible in this situation would only fall by about half the percentage of the stock, which would have had the bonds around 93-94 instead of 87-88.

One view is that most of the bonds were originally sold to hedge funds, which were enticed to buy both by the borrow facility and by a belief that the $1 billion deal would become a convertible index benchmark issue. If the bond were to be included in the major convertible indices, outright (unhedged) buyers whose performance is measured versus those indices would essentially be forced to buy, despite their discomfort with the credit. But apparently the index inclusion has not taken place, and nervous hedge funds are now scrambling to get out.

For institutional investors who believe in the Herbalife story (another problem with the bond is that, like many newly issued convertibles, it is a private placement that will not become available to most individual investors for a year or so, unless they own the bond through a mutual fund), the convertible sell-off may be an opportunity to play the name on more attractive terms. But for now few investors appear interested. To be continued.