This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... the probe into Herbalife this is what's news I'm WS J last I'm Joann Co ... the U S Federal Trade Commission starts a civil investigation into Herbalife the company is not revealing the nature of the pro ... clever Herbalife has been accused of operating as a pyramid scheme which the company repeatedly denies the news sending shares of the maker of nutritional supplements sinking fifteen percent before recovering slightly ... in a statement ... Herbalife says it will fully cooperate with the FTC and quote what is the tinkering given a tremendous amount of misinformation in the marketplace ... to residential buildings in Manhattan's East Harlem neighborhood collapse at least two people are dead ... and dozens are injured and there are still a number of missing people ... a gas explosion is reportedly the likely cause of the blast ... but that has not yet been fully confirms ... the folly of this and did receive the support of the past quarter but explosion occurred before crews arrived to investigate Wednesday morning ... witnesses say they heard a loud booming topping impact here hundred sixteenth Street and Park cavity ... explosions sending debris flying ... shattering windows and present several blocks away from the site ... also reported shaking ... general Motors is offering five hundred dollars in cash to owners of the one point six million cars ... covered in a faulty nation switch recall ... the cash allowance is for customers who are unhappy and wanted trading buy or lease a new product ... the auto maker is advising its dealers to tell customers ... AGN is not offering of repurchase ... as a remedy ... starting in April GM plants repair and replace which is in several makes and models ... ranging from two thousandthree ... two thousandseven ... too much weight on the ignition key while the car is operational me cos the switch ... to turn off the disabled Fairfax ... the problem has been linked to a dozen fatalities and lawmakers in Feds ... are investigating why it took nearly a decade to recall the vehicles ... bookie keep us in all the latest is about as rapid and what's news I'm WS J