A mortgage rate is the amount of interest paid on the mortgage, quoted as an Annual Percentage Rate (APR). Current rates are 5.01% for a 30-year fixed, 4.54% for a 15-year fixed, and 5.05% for a 5/1 adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM).

The more lenders you check out when shopping for mortgage rates, the more likely you are to get a lower interest rate. Getting a lower interest rate could save you hundreds of dollars over a year of mortgage payments ¡ª and thousands of dollars over the life of the mortgage. Yes, finding the best mortgage interest rate is a big deal.

With NerdWallet¡¯s easy-to-use mortgage rate tool, you can find the best home loan interest rate for you, whether you¡¯re a first-time homebuyer looking at 30-year mortgage rates or a long-time homeowner comparing refinance mortgage rates.

How to find the best mortgage rates

Start with the ¡°Loan Purpose¡± box above and fill in as many of the fields as you can to get the most accurately personalized quotes. For best results, try different scenarios. See how the mortgage rates differ from each lender, depending on your down payment or credit score. That can be a real eye opener.

And if you qualify, remember to check the ¡°Military/Veteran¡± box, too. Qualified borrowers can get a VA mortgage with no down payment and low rates, too. Definitely worth checking into.

If you want to do some serious mortgage rate research, click on the ¡°Advanced¡± link just above ¡°Get Rates.¡± That¡¯s where you can provide information on annual income, debt, property type and other factors that affect the mortgage rate you¡¯ll be quoted from each lender.

You can also select different loan programs and compare 30-year mortgage rates to 15-year mortgage rates. Fixed and adjustable rate options are available as well.

When you click ¡°Get Rates¡± you¡¯ll instantly find pages of home loan results from a variety of mortgage lenders. If you see an interest rate you like, you can click to view the details or head straight to the mortgage lender¡¯s website.

But don¡¯t just stop at one lender. Most people do, but shopping at least three lenders can save you more than $3,500 in just the first five years of your loan, according to research conducted by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.