Since the peak of the last gold bull market in September 2011, both buyers and sellers (mostly miners) of gold have been mired in a titanic and frustrating struggle to find an equilibrium clearing range, a price range that will ensure a steady amount of supply and demand growth year-in and year-out.

Unfortunately for many gold prognosticators (and gold bulls), unprecedented monetary and political events have conspired to thwart both gold producers and investors in finding a steady price range, resulting in heightened price volatility. Far from re-introducing a new regime of higher inflation, unprecedented monetary easing from the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, and the Bank of England have instead been supportive of economic growth and financial stability; moreover, by September 2011, gold had become highly vulnerable to a major correction as both institutional (e.g. UTIMCO) and retail investors embraced gold and gold mining stocks as a ¡°core holding¡± in anticipation of more monetary easing and U.S. dollar devaluation.

I became definitively bearish on gold in January 2013 (see my January 25, 2013 global macroeconomic commentary), when gold traded at $1,660 an ounce. At the time, I put forward three reasons why I was turning bearish on gold prices: 1) the immediate danger of a euro zone breakup¡ªwhich investors were genuinely worried about at the time¡ªwas passing, as Spain, Portugal, and Greece had just been bailed out by their richer euro zone peers, 2) U.S. economic growth was re-accelerating, and 3) gold prices were highly vulnerable to a major decline coming after a 12-year bull market. My 12- to 18-month price target for gold at the time was $1,100-$1,300 an ounce, a target which was reached just five months after.

I stayed bearish on gold prices throughout the course of 2013 and 2014. I became mildly bullish when gold declined to $1,200 an ounce in February 2015 (see my February 20, 2015 article ¡°Why Gold Is Looking Lustrous Once Again¡±); when gold prices decline below $1,100 an ounce in August 2015, I became even more bullish and asserted that it was ¡°one of the best times to own gold¡± (see my August 14, 2015 article ¡°Why Now Is a Great Time to Buy Gold¡±). I subsequently followed up on my bullish prognosis with a July 1, 2016 article (¡°Why Gold Is Now In A Bull Market¡±), discussing three reasons why gold remains in a bull market. Since then, volatility of gold prices has calmed down, suggesting that daily supply/demand dynamics is finally rebalancing (see Figure 1 below).

While the recent price correction from $1,350 to just over $1,250 an ounce¡ªas well as the Fed¡¯s intent to hike the fed funds rate by 25 basis points at its December 14 meeting¡ªis a bit disconcerting, I maintain that my three reasons for buying gold that I discussed on July 1 still hold.

Here are the three major narratives for owning gold.
 Global gold mining production has definitively peaked and is projected to decline despite the year-to-date bounce in process and higher investment demand

According to the World Gold Council¡¯s Q2 2016 Gold Demand Trends report, global mine supply totaled was 768.9 tonnes during the second quarter of this year. This is up 5% on a year-over-year basis (mainly due to a rise in producer hedging), but is over 14% below the peak of 897.0 tonnes achieved during the fourth quarter of 2014. More importantly, global mining executives have continued to focus on cost reduction and balance sheet deleveraging in lieu of exploration & development. At the recent September 18-21 Denver Gold Forum, gold miners were generally maintaining their growth discipline, with a focus on cost-cutting, debt deleveraging and spending on growth only as a means to replace reserves. According to Goldman Sachs, total exploration CAPEX for gold miners under their coverage is down by 83% since its 2012 peak, and is at just over 50% of its 2008 level. Based on current CAPEX spending, gold production for miners under Goldman¡¯s coverage is expected to decline by 2.4% annually over the next five years.

The world¡¯s largest gold miner, Barrick Gold, is still in deleveraging mode, and is halfway to its 2016 debt reduction goal of $2 billion to $8 billion, with a debt target of less than $5 billion in the next several years. Barrick expects to produce 5.0-5.5 million ounces of gold in 2016; this is expected to remain stagnant over the next couple of years, as Barrick is not spending enough to replace the natural decline of production in its current mines. Most importantly, Barrick remains highly disciplined and is allocating capital based on a gold price of just $1,200 an ounce. Similarly, Newmont¡¯s production is expected to remain steady at around 5.0 million ounces in 2015-2017, but production is expected to drop to 4.8 million ounces in 2018 and even lower in the ensuing years as its Yanacocha mine nears the end of its life.

I am cognizant that around 85% of the world¡¯s gold that has ever been mined is still held as jewelry or investment and could in theory be recycled into additional sources of supply. That being said, it usually takes a significant surge in gold prices to induce additional recycled supply. Global recycled good supply was 327.7 tonnes during the second quarter of 2016; for comparison purposes, quarterly recycled good supply ranged from 400 to 500 tonnes when gold prices were over $1,700 an ounce earlier this decade. Because it usually takes a surge in gold prices to induce additional recycled supply, gold mine supply remains the main source of supply that I track on a quarterly basis.
 The Long-term Outlook for Global Monetary and Fiscal Policy Remains Highly Expansionary

Since December 2015, the European Central Bank's policy rate has fallen from -0.20% to -0.40%, while the Bank of Japan adopted a negative interest rate policy for the first time earlier this year. As global interest rates troughed in early July, as much as $13 trillion of the world¡¯s debt market sported a negative yield. This induced a ¡°run¡± on gold as investors and global reserve currency managers flocked to gold as a means to preserve capital. During the first half of 2016, global investment demand for gold surged to a record 1,064 tonnes (16% higher than the previous record set in the first half of 2009), driven by U.S. and European demand for gold bars, coins, and gold ETFs.

Despite the uptick in interest rates since early July (along with the Fed¡¯s intent to hike the fed funds rate by 25 basis points at its December 14 meeting), the world¡¯s central banks really have no option but to continue to ease monetary policy for the indefinite future. Driven by negligible population and productivity growth, as well as high debt levels and entitlement spending, the ECB is likely to follow the footsteps of the Bank of Japan and keep easing for at least the next several years. Should the ECB ¡°lose control¡± and fail to keep the European monetary union together, inflows to gold will spike further as investors brace for a break-up of the euro zone. The ultimate break-up of the euro in its current form (including a German exit from the euro) is actually my base case scenario. Even within the U.S. (where we are experiencing relatively higher economic growth), the long-term stability of the U.S. dollar is still threatened by the unprecedented amount of unfunded pension and healthcare liabilities driven by entitlements such as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. According to the Congressional Budget Office¡¯s 2016 Long-Term Budget Outlook, U.S. federal debt as a percentage of GDP will hit 77% by the end of 2016, its highest level since 1950. Over the next ten years, the U.S. budget deficit will increase from 3.2% to 4.6% of GDP, driven by mostly by an increase in entitlement spending. By 2026, U.S. federal debt outstanding will rise to over $23 trillion, or 86% of GDP. One way for U.S./global policymakers to tackle this imminent tidal wave of retirement and healthcare spending is to inflate their currencies (more quantitative easing), which will result in higher inflation. As global policymakers monetize their governments¡¯ debt to fund higher entitlement spending and keep interest rates low, investors will flee to gold as a long-term hedge against such inflationary policies.
 Indian and Chinese gold jewelry demand will continue to rise

According to the World Gold Council, both Indian and Chinese gold jewelry demand for the first half of 2016 was disappointing. Indian jewelry demand was especially weak, declining by 32% relative to the first half of 2015. There were two main reasons for the weakness in Indian gold jewelry demand: 1) the six-week strike by Indian jewelers ending mid-April 2016, which put a significant dent in Indian jewelry purchases, and 2) Indian consumers¡ªespecially rural Indians whose incomes were adversely impacted by below-average monsoon rainfalls¡ªwere unprepared for the gold price spike once the strike ended. For Chinese consumers, both higher gold prices and volatility lowered jewelry demand; a weaker Chinese currency further crimped Chinese gold jewelry demand (down 16% year-over-year). However, I see the first half 2016 drop in Indian and Chinese jewelry demand as temporary. As gold price volatility calms down, Indian and Chinese jewelry demand should normalize. More importantly, events such as the strike by Indian jewelers and bad monsoon weather are transitory in nature; by far, the long-term drivers in gold demand in India and China are income levels and urbanization, as gold jewelry is regarded as a luxury consumer item in both countries. For the first half of 2016, Chinese real wages rose by 6.5% year-over-year, while a better Monsoon season this year should bring Indian income growth closer to its expected GDP growth of 8% this year. From a structural standpoint, both Indian and Chinese gold demand should rise over the next several years as income levels and urbanization continue to rise.

I thus believe gold remains a solid, long-term investment, and will be buying on any further dips. I anticipate a gold price of $2,000 an ounce by 2020. Such a purchase could be made either through an ETF like SPDR Gold Trust (GLD), or physical gold.

Disclosure: My firm, CB Capital Partners, and I hold shares in GLD.