The ACA uses a carrot-and-stick approach to promote enrollment. The carrot is the tax credit that subsidizes premiums for low to moderate income people who buy insurance in the marketplaces. These subsidies are progressive, providing the largest amounts to low-income individuals. The stick is the individual mandate, which requires most adults to obtain coverage or pay a fine. In 2017, the fine for not having coverage was $695 per adult and $347.50 per child or 2.5 percent of income, whichever is larger.

The individual mandate has generally been unpopular and has been criticized and challenged by opponents, sometimes on grounds that it is intrusive and burdensome, sometimes on more pragmatic grounds that it is ineffective as a spur to enroll. Proponents argue that it is critical to promoting enrollment, especially in the marketplaces.

Analysis conducted in 2015 estimated that that 12 million fewer people would have insurance in 2017 if the individual mandate were repealed, and no other provision (such as a continuous coverage requirement) replaced it. Individual-market enrollment would decline by about 25 percent, with the largest losses among the young and healthy. Premium prices in the individual market would increase by 8 percent. These results are consistent with findings from other research organizations, which have estimated coverage reductions in the range of 8 million to 16 million following repeal of the individual mandate.

Several Republican proposals, including the AHCA, have replaced the individual mandate with a requirement that people maintain continuous insurance coverage or face a penalty. Like the individual mandate, a continuous coverage requirement is intended to discourage individuals from waiting until they get sick to buy insurance. Under this requirement, individuals who let their coverage lapse risk being denied coverage in the future. When these individuals attempt to re-enter the market, insurers can charge higher prices, refuse to cover specific health conditions, or deny coverage altogether. It is likely that repealing the individual mandate would tend to cause healthier people to drop coverage in the individual market, which would also lead to an overall increase in premiums. At the same time, the continuous-coverage provision would likely cause some others to stay enrolled, particularly older adults for whom the 30 percent upcharge represented a larger amount relative to that faced by younger enrollees. We estimate that the net effect of this change would be 4 million fewer people insured in the individual market.