Gold futures moved up for a third straight session to end at a six-month high on Wednesday, as investors opted for safe haven assets while tracking declining global equity markets with fears of slowing economic growth in China after some lackluster trade data last weekend. The ongoing standoff between Russia and the West over the Crimean region in Ukraine also contributed to the spike in gold prices.

The stalemate over Russia's involvement in the Crimean region continued with leaders of the Group of Seven cautioning against any attempt to annex Ukraine's Crimea region, indicating grave implications in the event Russia goes ahead with the move. The West has also demanded the referendum slated for Sunday be called off. The crucial referendum in Crimea seeks to get people's approval to enable the region merge with Russia, after the regional parliament voted unanimously to become part of Russia.

Gold was also supported by some dismal data from the eurozone, with industrial production declining unexpectedly in January due to the ongoing contraction in energy output, reflecting the fragile nature of economic recovery in the area.

Gold for April delivery, the most actively traded contract, surged $23.80 or 1.8 percent to close at $1,370.50 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange on Wednesday.

Gold for April delivery scaled an intraday high of $1,371.30 and a low of $1,345.60 an ounce.

Yesterday, gold futures settled higher, after data on Saturday indicated the Chinese economy to be slowing more than initially estimated, with exports in February plummeting over 18 percent.

Holdings of SPDR Gold Trust, the world's largest gold-backed exchange-traded fund, remained unchanged at 812.70 tons from its previous close.

The dollar index, which tracks the U.S. unit against six major currencies, traded at 79.58 on Wednesday, down from its previous close of 79.79 late Tuesday in North American trade. The dollar scaled a high of 79.86 intraday and a low of 79.56.

The euro traded higher against the dollar at $1.3907 on Wednesday, as compared to its previous close of $1.3860 late Tuesday in North America. The euro scaled a high of $1.3913 intraday and a low of $1.3844.

In economic news, eurozone industrial output fell 0.2 percent month-on-month in January, which was the second consecutive drop, Eurostat said Wednesday. Economists expected production to expand 0.5 percent, after a revised 0.4 percent drop in December.

Sector-wise, energy production declined 2.5 percent as seen in December. Durable consumer goods output slipped 0.6 percent, in contrast to a 0.8 percent rise a month ago. Likewise, production of intermediate goods slipped 0.1 percent. Partially offsetting these declines, capital goods gained 0.9 percent and non-durable consumer goods rose 0.4 percent.