Shares of American Eagle Outfitters (AEO) and Urban Outfitters (URBN) slid in the the stock market today after the retailers posted holiday period financial results and gave disappointing guidance for the first quarter. But shares of Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS) moved higher after it reported Q4 financial results Tuesday before the bell, despite the fact it gave a first-quarter outlook below Wall Street views.

Struggling teen-apparel retailer American Eagle saw its fourth straight quarter of sales and earnings declines when it posted Q4 earnings before the bell Tuesday. Earnings slid 51% to 27 cents a share, slightly above forecasts by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters. Sales slipped 7% to $1.04 billion, also ahead of views.

But the company gave a cautious Q1 outlook: "Business conditions remain challenging with severe winter weather contributing to weak demand," it said. Based on a high single-digit decline in same-store sales, the company expects earnings to be about break-even compared to adjusted earnings of 18 cents a share a year earlier. That would be below analysts' views for 13 cents a share.

Dick's saw an 8% rise in earnings to $1.11 a share, in line with forecasts. Revenue rose 8% to $1.947 billion, topping estimates.

But the sporting goods retailer gave Q1 earnings guidance of 51 cents to 53 cents a share, below analysts' forecasts for 54 cents a share.

Urban Outfitters, which reported Monday night, saw Q4 earnings rise 5% to 59 cents a share, ahead of forecasts. But it was the first single-digit decline the trendy apparel and accessories retail store operators has seen in six quarters. Revenue rose 6% to $905.9 million, well below consensus.

Urban Outfitters operates stores under its namesake, Anthropologie and Free People brands. CEO Richard Hayne warned about Q1 for its namesake brand: "Looking forward, customer reaction to the new spring fashion offerings at our Anthropologie and Free People brands have been strong, but given the continued challenges facing the Urban Outfitters brand, we remain very cautious about URBN's first quarter performance," he said in a statement.

Separately on Tuesday, Wall Street got some encouraging news on the retail front. The International Council of Shopping Centers-Goldman Sachs chain-store sales index rose by a solid 1.3% for the week ended March 8 from the prior week's seasonally adjusted level as consumers came out of hibernation and shopped more. The index rose 2.1% vs. a year earlier.

Sales, however, were uneven by segment. The ICSC-Goldman Sachs consumer tracking survey found improvement at drug, discounters, wholesale club, specialty and electronics stores. But grocery, department, apparel, dollar and furniture stores were weaker.