The merger between banana heavyweights Fyffes and Chiquita Brands hit the skids (sorry) early this week after Florida-based juice maker Cutrale Group and Brazilian investment firm Safra made a rival bid for Chiquita. So why is everyone suddenly so hungry for bananas? Selling the bendy fruit is big business. The banana market is worth $7bn a year, according to Barron＊s, with over 100 billion bananas eaten around the world. This makes bananas the fourth most important agricultural product behind such staples as wheat, rice and corn. If Chiquita and Fyffes were to merge, the combined company would control 14pc of the market.

Banana brands have often been ahead of the curve with their marketing strategies

But selling banana＊s is also a low margin business. Suppliers are getting squeezed by the big retailers and their plantations are often hit by political unrest, natural disasters and bad weather. The upshot: Chiquita sold $1.97bn worth of bananas the last year at a cost of $1.71 billion. Add in other costs and Chiquita＊s banana business made just $112m of operating income in 2013 每 a profit margin of less than 6pc.

Part of the reason is that consumers have been programmed to think bananas are cheap. Andrew Preston, the man who founded a company called Boston Fruit in the late nineteenth century to introduce bananas to the US, had a simple strategy: bananas had to be half the price of apples.

Dan Koeppel, the author of Banana: The Fate of the Fruit That Changed the World said: ※To do that, the banana had to be turned from an agricultural product to an industrial one. Don＊t think of banana plantations as farms; think of them as factories, factories with just one product.§

The ultra-efficient business model that resulted from this philosophy had a huge impact on indigenous workers on banana plantations and hence on the politics of banana-growing regions. In One Hundred Years Of Solitude the Columbian novelist Gabriel Garc赤a M芍rquez writes about the massacre of striking of banana plantation workers in order to critique the history of Western imperialism in Latin American.

For more on this, read:

Banana Wars: Power, Production and History in the Americas 每 by Steve Striffler and Mark Moberg

Bitter Fruit: The Story of the American Coup in Guatemala 每 by Stephen Schlesinger

Or you can get a more digested read in this excellent blog written by the Telegraph＊s Tom Chivers in March.

The question now is: who will win the new corporate banana wars?
 The average person in the UK eats about 100 bananas a year. That adds up to five billion bananas being peeled by Brits every year.
 The word banana comes from the Arabic word "banan", meaning finger
 That banana plant is a herb not a tree and bananas are berries
 Bananas are naturally radioactive 每 they contain high levels of potassium including the radioactive isotope potassium-40
 Nearly all commercial bananas are clones of each other and derived from a single plant in Southeast Asia 每 the Adam and Eve of bananas
 There are thousands of different types of banana but we mostly eat just one: the Cavendish, developed by the sixth Duke of Devonshire
 The scientific name for banana is musa sapientum, which means 'fruit of the wise men'.

Banana: The Fate of the Fruit That Changed the World 每 by Dan Koeppel

Blurb: "A gripping chronicle of the myth, mystery, and uncertain fate of the world's most popular fruit In this fascinating and surprising exploration of the banana's history, cultural significance, and endangered future."

How Bad Are Bananas?: The carbon footprint of everything 每 by Mike Berners-Lee

Bananas: Now the United Fruit Company Shaped the World 每 by Peter Chapman

Banana slicer - for when you absolutely have to slice a banana really, really quickly.

Anti-bruising banana case - to ensure that your banana isn't squished in transit.