Stocks closed sharply lower, retreating from last week's records as investors paused to assess recent U.S. economic data while shrugging off uncertainties surrounding Ukraine. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 67.43 points to 16,351.25, the S&P 500 index eased 9.54 points to 1,867.63 and the Nasdaq Composite Index fell 27.26 points to 4,307.19. (Business Spectator)

The euro fell against the dollar and the yen today after European Central Bank policymakers indicated traders may have overlooked the message the bank may still act to stimulate the euro zone economy. (Reuters)

In afternoon New York trade, May copper changed hands at just under $2.96 a pound, the lowest level for the most active futures contract since July 2010. (Mining.com)

Men's Wearhouse said it would acquire rival Jos. A. Bank Clothiers for about $1.8 billion, ending a five-month saga that started with Jos. A. Bank offering to buy its larger menswear rival. (Reuters)

U.S. employers advertised slightly more jobs in January than in December, a sign that hiring should remain steady in coming months. ( Associated Press

Congressional efforts to shut down bailed-out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac took a significant step forward today as key senators announced bipartisan agreement on a plan to overhaul the housing finance system. (Los Angeles Times)

The New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission voted today to ban the direct sale of automobiles in New Jersey, forcing electric-car maker Tesla to use dealers instead. (CNBC News)

Could JC Penney be on the verge of a turnaround? According to Citi analyst Oliver Chen, brighter days are on their way. (Forbes)

Steven A. Cohen is changing the name of his SAC Capital Advisors LP to Point72 Asset Management as the hedge-fund firm stops managing client money to settle U.S. allegations of insider-trading charges. (Bloomberg News)

A state securities regulator has ordered an exploration and production company to stop accepting bitcoins as payment for investments in its Texas oil wells. (Reuters)

Time Warner Cable is promising faster innovation and improved products once its merger with Comcast is complete. (Louisville Business First)

Sprint chairman Masayoshi Son came to Washington today to promote Sprint's interest in offering home broadband service and reframe the conversation around his stalled effort to acquire T-Mobile US. (Re/code)

A Vietnamese identity theft ring allowed criminals to conduct searches on an Experian-owned database containing information on 200 million consumers. (InformationWeek)

Libya's navy opened fire today on a tanker carrying oil from a rebel-held eastern port and Italian vessels are helping to secure the now-stationary vessel. (Reuters)

Interpol is allowing two airlines to check passenger passports against its vast database of lost and stolen travel documents -- in a test project aimed to let private sector companies help authorities crack down on criminals who travel with fake documents. (Associated Press)

Mark Carney has vowed to overhaul the Bank of England's dealings as he attempts to shore up the bank's authority amid the escalating scandal over the manipulation of foreign exchange markets. (Financial Times)