The past year has been a time of continued progress and evolution at JCPenney. In 2016 alone, we implemented all-new growth categories, delivered a vastly improved omnichannel experience and achieved positive net income for the first time since 2010. And while we¡¯ve gained tremendous momentum in changing the way customers view the traditional department store, we know there¡¯s much work to do to remain competitive in a dynamic retail environment.

At our analyst meeting last August, we introduced growth opportunities to bolster our strategic framework of omnichannel, private brands, and increased revenue per customer first outlined in 2015. These strategic pillars enabled us to streamline our areas of focus, so we can pursue growth initiatives that entice customers to shop often and spend more on every trip.

We believe that becoming a leading destination for home refresh, value, special sizes, beauty and omnichannel excellence are the biggest opportunities to drive our business. The following report highlights the activities currently underway for each initiative. Not coincidentally, these growth opportunities fit squarely under each pillar of our framework, allowing us to continue building increased momentum as we seek to achieve sustainable growth and profitability.

One of the biggest undertakings over the past year was our decision to go into the Home Refresh category by piloting major appliances in select markets to capitalize on the millions of American homeowners who are updating their homes. After a highly successful pilot period, which included a robust online selection at jcp.com, we rolled out appliance showrooms to over 500 stores across the nation, resulting in meaningful revenue growth and increased sales per square foot within our Home departments. These results are encouraging, particularly as we shift our retail strategy to incorporate less weather sensitive categories. To build on this success, we plan to roll out appliances to 100 additional locations in the coming year.

As we transitioned to 2017, we further intensified our efforts in Home by launching JCPenney Home Services. We know that homeowners continue to invest a larger percentage of their disposable income on home upgrades. To meet this demand, we¡¯re piloting a variety of turn-key services; from heating and cooling systems, simple bath remodels and one-week window blinds installation; to capitalize on the home improvement trend, while acquiring available market share and differentiating our business from the competition.

Although we¡¯re confident that we can effectively compete in an industry where homeowners are spending more than $300 billion annually, JCPenney will continue to stand for great style at an amazing value across the entire store. We have some of the strongest private apparel brands in retail, all of which drive margin and protect our bottom line. These brands, coupled with our national and exclusive brand portfolio, allow us to capitalize on our strengths in design and sourcing, in-store presentation and pricing optimization to build market share in apparel, accessories, footwear, as well as home.

Plus size fashion is one of the fastest-growing categories in retail, but this customer is still greatly underserved. In response to this need, JCPenney launched Boutique+ in 2016, our first fashion brand for the full-figured woman. And since these shoppers prefer to touch, feel and try on merchandise in-store, we debuted an all-new dedicated area of the store that gives plus size women an elevated environment for shopping a curated assortment of classic and modern fashion, denim and activewear.

We¡¯re continuing to build on the success of beauty by expanding and enhancing in-store experiences that simply cannot be replicated online. In 2016, we opened over 60 new Sephora inside JCPenney locations, and plan to add an additional 70 shops in 2017. We¡¯re also expanding the size of over 30 highly productive Sephora locations and rolling out new and exciting brands across the fleet and online where customers now have the option of buying Sephora products at JCPenney.com and picking them up in the store the same day.

Salon is another key component of our beauty strategy, as we know these customers visit the store eight times a year and spend twice as much as the average customer. In 2017, we¡¯re rebranding an additional 50 salon locations to The Salon By InStyle ¨C a modern concept that appeals to new and younger customers and strengthens loyalty among existing clients. We¡¯ve introduced a new feature on JCPenney.com and the mobile app that gives clients the flexibility of booking their appointments online.

In an ongoing endeavor to connect with how, when and where customers prefer to shop, we also made considerable strides in omnichannel last year. In fact, a third-party research firm ranked jcpenney.com as the fifth highest rated website for 2016, recognizing our e-commerce site for its overall improvement in functionality.

Making items easy to find on jcpenney.com was fundamentally important as we made the strategic decision to increase our online product assortment by 40% last year, and introduced new product categories such as electronics, smart home devices, camping and outdoor gear, musical instruments and more. However, we¡¯re not stopping there. We have plans to increase our online item assortment by over 140% versus last year to effectively compete with pure-play e-commerce rivals who simply lure shoppers with their vast selection.

We believe maintaining a strong brick and mortar portfolio gives us a competitive advantage in the evolving retail landscape since our physical stores function as a seamless extension of the omnichannel experience. We help shoppers complete online purchases through a variety of fulfillment options, including ship to store, same-day store pickup and a faster home delivery with the capability to fill jcp.com orders with store inventory in hundreds of JCPenney stores. Consequently, approximately 77% of all online orders touched a physical store in 2016. With rising fulfillment costs plaguing the entire industry, we are pleased that our brick and mortar locations enable us to offset the last-mile delivery cost.

Omnichannel allows us to leverage our nationwide store footprint to bring speed and convenience to customers who expect a seamless digital and in-store shopping experience. As we improve site functionality, expand ship-from-store capabilities and continually refine the features associated with our mobile app, we expect to continue driving increased revenue in 2017.

Amid a tough retail environment, I¡¯m proud to say that, in addition to producing a positive net income for the first time in six years, we delivered on our goal of generating $1 billion in EBITDA for 2016. Considering how far the Company has come in the last few years, this was no small feat.

Looking back on the full year, we significantly improved our capital structure, which enabled us to strengthen our balance sheet and deleverage our debt position. Over the course of 2016, we utilized available cash to retire approximately $160 million of outstanding debt. Our ability to successfully deliver on our $1 billion EBITDA target for 2016, coupled with our reduced debt levels, brought our net debt to EBITDA ratio down to 3.7 times by the end of 2016, compared to 5.4 times the year prior.

In closing, I would be remiss not to mention some of the challenging decisions we made as a Company. In February of this year, we announced the closure of 138 stores, one supply chain facility and the relocation of another supply chain facility as part of our efforts to optimize operations and drive growth. It became evident that store locations that could fully execute the Company¡¯s growth initiatives generated significantly higher sales, and a more vibrant in-store shopping environment. It¡¯s essential for us to invest Company resources in those locations as well as initiatives that offer the greatest revenue potential. Making these decisions is never easy, but we feel this is a necessary business decision as we build a foundation for a successful and sustainable future.

Lastly, I¡¯d like to take a moment to thank every one of our 100,000 associates across this great Company. Their unwavering Warrior Spirit and commitment to execution has been critical to implementing our growth strategies, providing exceptional customer service in our stores and delivering profitability. There¡¯s still much work to be done moving forward, but I¡¯m confident we have the right initiatives in place to differentiate JCPenney from our competitors. Thank you for your trust and loyalty in JCPenney, and we look forward to another year of prosperity and growth.

Marvin R. Ellison

 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 J. C. Penney Company, Inc.