
 'Slack in economy means stimulus needed for some time'
 Carney: approach to BoE decisions will be 'consensual'
 Carney defends his remuneration package
 Carney grilled over inflation targeting
 Carney: 12 MPC meetings a year 'verges on too many'
 Mark Carney plots assault on Bank of England
 Ten questions for Mark Carney

14.50 And with that, we're wrapping up our live coverage for today. Thanks for reading and commenting.

If we want to read more about Mark Carney's testimony, have a look at these:

14.48 Before we wrap up the live coverage of Mark Carney's testimony, here are a few thoughts from economic observers on his performance:

The incoming Bank of England governor charmed the scrutinising UK parliamentary committee. He dodged hard questions and backtracked on his one mildly radical policy suggestion. But he didn't sound ready to deal with big fiscal deficits or the British fixation on house prices.

The general impression coming from Mr. Carney¡¯s comments that there may well eventually be some significant changes at the Bank of England under his tenure, but they will likely be evolutionary and gradual rather than quick and radical. There are also indications that Mr. Carney may be more flexible than Sir Mervyn King in how he wants the Bank of England to react to certain events. Meanwhile. Mr Carney gave little indication as to whether he would be pushing for more stimulative action, noting that the economy could look different when he arrives in July than it does now.

Mark Carney's speech has fallen short of market expectations for a radical overhaul of the Bank of England: although, he has advocated further easing, which should increase its impact.

Whilst Carney hasn't suggested overhauling our entire monetary policy framework - away from inflation targeting to growth targets - he has made a slight correction.

Rather than inflation targeting, he suggests ¡°flexible inflation targeting¡±; the premise is a shared understanding, by better communicating to the public why inflation is not at target and when it will return to target.

14.25 Paddy J O'Donnell, professor of pyschology at the University of Glasgow, cast an eye over Mark Carney's body language in front of MPs. Prof O'Donnell says:

Mr Carney clearly views himself as a communicative, listening but also authoritative, team leader. He conveys power by his forward lean, direct gaze and emphatic hand gestures. He often uses a hands-off, palm-facing-target gesture and downwards palm pressure indicating both ¡®stop¡¯ and ¡®I will keep it under control¡¯.

However, this is softened by direct smiles at the questioner and a head-leaning-to the side stance which is a traditional appeasement gesture.

14.07 London's leading shares haven't responded too positively to Carney's testimony. The FTSE 100 is down 19 points to 6275.

13.56 Our live feed has gone down, but Bloomberg reliably tells that the testimony has ended. Everyone must be ready for their lunch.

13.55 Mark Carney was asked whether he was surprised by the Libor scandal and he responded that he was, particularly by the rigging for own profit.

13.53 Pat McFadden MP notes that Carney has been grilled by the TSC for the past three and a half hours on a variety of policy issues: "Are you concerned that expectations of you may be set too high?"

Carney has a little joke than says "the point is, the exit should be less news than the entrance and hopefully that it executed through my actions".

"Also this isn¡¯t a super governor, it is a series of policy committees... and they do their best to work together, and it is a much broader institution than one individual, as that comes apparent the individual becomes much less important," he added.

13.46 And more from Faisal Islam, Channel 4 News' economics editor, on that discussion:

<noframe>Twitter: Faisal Islam - not great for Osborne: Carney praises Canada's effective 16:1 bank leverage cap. Vickers wanted 25:1 as Mervyn. Osborne has gone for 33:1..</noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Faisal Islam - ... though Carney did not bite the feeding hand by saying that the canadian and proposed UK leverage caps were like "apples and oranges"</noframe>

13.44 They are now discussing leverage ratios. Phil Aldrick helpfully sums up the discussion for us:

<noframe>Twitter: Philip Aldrick - Carney says he supports Vickers on the leverage ratio for ringfenced banks. So. He's already squared up against Osborne</noframe>

13.37 Mark Carney dodged a political bullet when he was asked whether it would be better if RBS and Lloyds were broken up. He said simply "I don't know".

With respect to the direct question, I don't know is the honest answer. I haven't looked at the particular circumstances of either of those two institutions and the relatives merits of economies of scale, scope that would be necessary, the valuation that could potentially be achieved and the ultimate interests of taxpayers.

13.31 To turn to Mark Carney's written evidence for a moment, he explains that he wants to be able to explain his decisions as governor to the public.

Keep your eyes peeled on Twitter. Carney says he intends to "engage widely, using speeches and media interviews". He also wants to develop further the use of social media for the bank. He points to the Bank of Canada's use of social media for the launch of a new range of bank notes. Carney says this strategy saved the Bank an estimated $1m in costs for advertising and promotional materials.

13.20 The discussion turns to the issue of banking scandals and John Mann notes that US regulators have been far more quick and far more brutal, and happier to imprison more than we have been in this country. He asks Carney what direction he intends to take banking regulation in this country?

First point I¡¯d make is the behaviour that¡¯s been exhibited this week, confirmed this week, is reprehensible and should be prosecuted to full extent of the law. The reposnioblity to do that does not rest with the [Bank of England].

Issues of conduct will reside with the FCA. That said in prudential supervision the patterns of behaviour, and an absence of proper control environments, weaknesses in culture are material for prudential supervisions.

13.14 Mark Carney spoke with John Mann MP about the difficulties faced by businesses and consumers wanting to borrow.

He said it was important to ensure that banks are transparently and adequately capitalised. It is in the interest of everyone that there is a speedy resolution to that review, he added.

He went onto say that Funding for Lending was beneficial because it had encouraged a reduction in funding spreads in the market for banks.

13.08 The questions have now moved onto banks. Carney says that the wide gap between bank borrowing and lending rates is an inefficiency at the core of the UK economy. He adds that improving banking competition in the UK is extremely important.

13.06 It sounds like there are a fair few hardy souls sticking round for the second half of the hearing:

<noframe>Twitter: Ed Conway - Room has marginally thinned out but still busy by TSC standards RT <a href="http://www.twitter.com/pchewpchew" target="_blank">@pchewpchew</a>: What % of people are left in the room for this second half??</noframe>

12.59 Jeremy Warner, the Telegraph's assistant editor, has blogged on Carney so far. He writes that the Canadian has provided a welcome breath of fresh air:

OK, so we've now heard enough from Mark Carney, Governor-elect of the Bank of England, to see roughly where he's coming from on monetary policy, and it's not quite as radical as some had been hoping for.

Yes, he thinks there is a good case for reviewing the Bank of England's mandate, but ultimately he believes that the current system of flexible inflation targeting is the best possible way of achieving inflation and output objectives.

All the excitement over whether Carney would back nominal GDP targeting seems to have been somewhat overdone. In fact, Carney is "far from convinced of its merits", for be believes that it is too complicated for people to properly understand what the central bank is trying to do.

12.54 And they're back. Before we start covering the second half of this hearing, here are a few points that Carney made about pensioners and the impact of savings on QE a few minutes ago.

Brooks Newmark asked about the effect of QE and low interest rates on savers.

Carney responded that he "absolutely recognised that there are broader consequences of QE" and that "pensioners are in difficult circumstance because of low rates".

But he noted that pensioners in Canada are in difficult times and there has been no QE there.

Mark Carney was asked about the impact of money-printing on pensions.

12.38 Mark Carney says that if there is an external economy that has borne the brunt of the eurozone crisis, it has been the UK.

He adds that he would support the development of a true banking union, but it is essential that the British financial industry is safeguarded and recognised in that banking union:

I think it¡¯s a responsibility of Bank of England and our role to be fully engaged in interaction with the ECB and EBA to ensure that we are very clearly at the table and very clearly representing the 'outs' in Europe and I fully intend to do this.

12.30 He adds that we are moving from the acute phase of managing the European crisis to the chronic phase.

12.29 Asked about the eurozone, Mark Carney tells MPs that he has an interest in a working European monetary union. He adds that enormous challenges in Europe remain.

12.24 Brooks Newmark MP, who says he is "optimistic" of Carney starting, moves the conversation on to QE, saying:

You¡¯ve come up with some thoughtful alternatives in targeting growth, having looked at QE globally do you think that printing more money today is going to have a significant beneficial impact on what you want to achieve which is growth.

The work we have done with Bank of Canada suggests that returns to QE have declined particularly in US as scale of programme has increased.

12.13 Andrew Tyrie pushed Carney on his remark about independence.

Tyrie said that "on independence, you appear to be reasonably relaxed about the idea that a chancellor might express a view about aspects of conduct of monetary policy. Have I got that right. More relaxed than has been the case?"

Carney responded: "I don¡¯t imagine making a large about of comments about fiscal policy so don¡¯t imagine the chancellor will comment on monetary."

12.11 There have been reports that Mark Carney is meeting with George Osborne this week, but he denies this. He says it was never planned that he would.

That question came on the back of a debate about the relations between politics and the role of Bank of England governor. Carney was very clear in his answer:

There will be no question of me as governor of bank and the institution, [independence] is enshrined. There is a structure put in place, there is an absolutely clear structure, we get a remit, we execute that as best we see fit and no political influence will come to bear and have an influence on the execution of that remit.

12.08 John Mann asks Mark Carney whether the Bank of England should feel comfortable questioning its own remit.

He picks his words carefully and says the remit is a question for government, but if the Bank were invited to question its remit, it would be reasonable for it to respond.

Pushed further by Mann on whether, if the Bank weren't invited, would it feel such questioning appropriate, Carney says:

Depends on how the questioning is conducted. Bank is given a remit and it does its best to achieve whatever remit is given to it by the government. Active questioning of that remit can have confusion and make it less effective that it would otherwise be.

So I would make a distinction where debate has been invited then it is appropriate for the Bank to respond. I would also say through research, the bank would look at ways to improve monetary policy framework, but that¡¯s distinct from the Bank having a view that the remit should be changed.

12.03 In other news, the Bank of England has kept interest rates unchanged at 0.5pc and QE unchanged at 375bn.

11.56 Danny Blanchflower, formerly of the Monetary Policy Committee, is pleased to hear Mark Carney talking down nominal GDP targeting:

<noframe>Twitter: Danny Blanchflower - Very pleased to hear Carney has ruled out NGDP targeting attractive in theory but totally impractical because of large &amp; frequent revisions</noframe>

11.50 When asked whether nominal GDP targeting is a possible alternative as a framework to flexible inflation targeting, Carney gives a very long-winded answer. But in short, he says:

I am far from convinced about moving to nominal GDP targeting but it is a valid part of the debate if one is looking at a framework.

11.49 MPs have got round to asking Mark Carney about nominal GDP targeting. He has previously suggested that the Bank's efforts could be geared towards a GDP target. As it stands, the Bank of England must send an explanatory letter to the Chancellor when it fails to hit the 2pc inflation target.

11.41 George Mudie asks another question about the monetary policy framework so it is more like the US, where they have a dual mandate.

I think there is merit debating framework of Britain and reaching a quick decision. And in my view the best framework is flexible inflation targeting. That is best contribution not just to price stability but to employment

I don¡¯t start from a position of looking for a dual mandate but I do start from position currently shared by MPC, considerable monetary policy is required to take up that slack and if more is required when I¡¯m in office I¡¯ll do my best to persuade my colleagues on this.

Mark Carney, the next Bank of England governor.

11.39 George Mudie MP notes that while Carney doesn't start for another four months, when he does will he "be coming to the table in July recognising that we have flat lined for two years" and a fresh monetary policy initiative may raise valid questions of impact on inflation.

Carney answers: "My view in July when I take office will be conditioned on outlook for inflation in this country I don¡¯t want to precommit and as will be affected by MPC today and subsequent meetings."

When I come to table there will continue to be considerable slack. Unquestionably that will be a situation that merits considerable monetary policy stimulus, and those judgements about which instruments to use have to be guided by remit given to the bank.

11.34 Ed Conway, Sky's economics editor, is listening to Mark Carney and this is what he makes of the testimony so far:

<noframe>Twitter: Ed Conway - The more Carney speaks, the clearer it is that he really intends to shake up UK monetary policy. More guidance on rates, reconsider target&hellip;</noframe>

11.25 Andrew Sentance, the former Bank of England rate setter, seems to be impressed by Carney's openness.

<noframe>Twitter: Andrew Sentance - <a href="http://www.twitter.com/oluodeniyi" target="_blank">@oluodeniyi</a> Hopefully being open and honest doesn't rule people out from major public appointments. Mark Carney seems to be quite open.</noframe>

11.24 Carney is now asked if the MPC has been too tolerant of inflation or if it's aiming too high.

Carney defends the MPC and says he has "no reason to doubt" it and adds "further looking through the shocks the MPC has ensured there has not been a deeper stagnation in the economy".

The expectation of MPC was in good faith that inflation would return to target sooner than it did, so I would view that it as important that there is a shared understanding and flexibility on this issue.

Second point in these exceptional economical circumstances, with inflation above target as it is at present, in discussion of the framework, it would be useful to have understanding as to what is the optimal time to return to target and why and what is impact on employment, on output.

11.19 In case you missed it earlier, here's a clip of Mark Carney justifying his remuneration to MPs this morning:

11.17 More from Stewart Hosie. He notes that the Bank of Canada meets 8 times a year while the MPC, by statute, meets 12 times a year. He asks, is 8 enough, is 12 too many?

Carney answers: It's by statute and can't imagine that would be reopened for this issue. Its certainly enough to meet 12 times.

Howsie pushes him: [Is 12] too many?

Carney: It verges on too many.

11.15 Stewart Hosie MP asks Carney if he is ready for MPC member s to disagree with him.

Carney I think they already have.

Hosie Are you ready to be outvoted.

Carney Yes. I would like to be on the right side more often than not. I fully imagine that over the course of my position I will be outvoted.

11.12 Tyrie has turned to questions of monetary policy, noting that Carney has made some "interesting" remarks lately. Is the UK's policy the right one? Carney responds:

Well I would note that what we do in Canada is review our framework every five years. Public review process - we have found that that is a very effective process as ensures there is constant learning and shared understanding about the flexible inflation target, particualry in post-crisis period, I would suggest that its important to ensure that there is buy-in to that existing framework.

I start from a position where flexible inflation targeting is most successful monetary framework that has been in existence, so bar to change Is very high but I would note that there seems to be an appetite for some debate as to what exactly the framework is and what alternatives and that should be encouraged.

11.06 Yesterday, the pound was looking wobbly against the dollar but it has strengthened while Carney has been speaking:

11.05 Still with the written evidence, Carney refers to the fact that he wants to do a good job:

More generally, I would like to achieve an exit in 2018 that is less newsworthy than my entrance.

11.03 Back to the written evidence from Carney. Watch out banks. Carney says in his written evidence regarding the PRA, the new regulator:

We need to build understanding of the new regime as one in which it is understood that financial institutions can fail but that, if they do, their failure will be controlled and will not threaten the system. The implicit state subsidy for banks needs to be removed.

To do that, we need also to make the ICB [vickers] proposals a reality and to establish a full and credible resolution regime to sort out failing banks without recourse to the taxpayer.

11.01 Carney's left out of the in-joke as Tyrie asks whether the thinks the Bank should have a formal responsibility to reasonable requests from the Treasury Select Committee for reviews.

Carney I would view that we have a responsibility to respond to reasonable requests.

Tyrie So you wont have any objections to having this put in statute.

Carney I¡¯m sure theres something I¡¯m missing. Yes I agree with that

Tyrie Are you happy to that?

Tyrie then notes that the committee has not been able to do that before (get it written in law).

10.57 John Thurso goes on to say that it has been said that from April, the UK Bank governor may be seen as the most powerful central banker in the world, given the committees he will sit on, and that there is the possibility looking at all of that, it can go two ways ¨C can be emperor or constitutional monarch. Which would you prefer?

No individual is going to have the expertise of the collective of those committees, that¡¯s why those externals are selected and that why we develop internally. So it cannot be an emperor, that cannot be the approach.

It would also be limiting for the institution.

But I'm not sure that goes to your other option. More of a managing partner.

10.56 John Thurso MP asks Carney about the vision of the Bank of Canada.

Carney says its about price and financial stability.

He adds that given that the Bank of England's powers are changing in April he says:

Price and and financial stability - important [it is] recognised that they are building blocks, cornerstone, of prosperity, without either that will not come, but with a vision that is developed jointly with senior managerment and is broadly recognised by all members of staff.

10.52 Carney has been giving MPs a lesson on capital ratios and other financial terms. World First tweets:

<noframe>Twitter: World First - <a href="http://search.twitter.com/search?q=Carney" target="_blank">#Carney</a> passes Financial test. Now has Double French, Art and then a free period</noframe>

10.48 Some economist reaction to Carney's testimony is already filtering through. Peter Dixon from Commerzbank says:

My initial reaction is that much of it is really suggesting what central bankers around the world have already talked about, in other words price stability is the main thing to focus on.

He says I have not made an assessment of the merit of altering the monetary policy framework, so obviously he retains an open mind as to where we go from here.

One thing that people talked about ahead of the hearing was his views on nominal GDP targeting, and he says well yes it's an option in the event that interest rates need a bit more traction, so he's not ruling anything out or ruling anything in.

So it's a fairly balanced, actually very detailed and very good assessment of many of the problems facing the UK.

10.46 To return to Carney's written evidence for a moment, here are some of the policy challenges that he highlighted:

- Deliver price stability while promoting a timely, sustained recovery and the highest sustainable level of employment in the UK economy

- The Bank will need to design, implement and ultimately exit QE - or what he calls " unconventional monetary policy measures"

- The international nature of the crisis, means the Bank must support the Government as it "engages in efforts of the euro area to re-found the Euorpean monetary union", address global imbalances and build a better international monetary system

- Bank will need to complement price stability with confidence in the integrity of the pound.

10.44 Carney is asked if he will be running a "Zero failure regime" within the bank.

Carney replies: "The bank will make mistakes. All institutions make mistakes."

But he adds that he will only tolerate a low level, not medium.

The Bank of England "will make mistakes", says Mark Carney.

10.36 Andrew Tyrie asked Carney about his written evidence, in particular that within it he references consensus on many occasions, and he asks Carney to compare his management style with incumbent Sir Mervyn King.

Carney says that he's not in a position, having not worked in the institution, to talk about the management style.

He dodged the question for a bit and then added:

I fully recognise that with the voting structure of the MPC, FPC and the working of the PRA board that it will not always be possible to have consensus and that is fine, and I recognize as governor that I will be in minority...my job [will] be to ensure all jobs are heard and all analysis are followed up upon and then decisions is made by the individual.

10.33 David Ruffley points out Carney will be paid less than recent England football managers and will probably have more success. Let's hope so.

10.28 Carney is asked about the fact that he's only planning to do the job for five years. If he hadn't achieved what he wanted to in that time, would he consider staying on?

I think there¡¯s value in clarity about the term, particularly given some of the internal transformations in the institutions.

We need to put in place an effective talent management successive plan.

10.26 As well as appearing in person in front of MPs, Carney has also submitted 45 pages of written evidence to the committee.

It outlines what he regards as some of the main challenges in the role; how he would describe his leadership style; and which economist has influenced him most - he diplomatically says he's been influenced by "a very broad range of academic economists".

10.22 Predictably, Carney is asked about his remuneration package. Teresa Pearce says that mortgages are hard to come by - is that why you need an extra quarter of a million a year as a housing allowance?

It is consistent with many executives who move to this country or other countries and in order to equalise in broad terms from where they live to where they arrive. I¡¯m moving from one of the least expensive cities in the world, Ottawa, to one of the most expensive.

Asked if he would have done the job for less, he says he was offered those terms and accepted them.

10.20 In short, Carney's decision regarding the role was influenced by his daughter's education:

<noframe>Twitter: jeremy warner - <a href="http://search.twitter.com/search?q=Carney" target="_blank">#Carney</a> agrees it was his daughters education which was decisive in changing his mind about the Bank of England job</noframe>

10.17 Carney mentions that George Osborne spoke to him in Mexico in the G20 the night before the US election in November.

10.15 Here's what Carney had to say in response to Andrew Tyrie's question:

There were a series of conversations over the course of last year with the permanent secretary and the chancellor relating to this position. My view in the summer of last year and up to the October deadline was that not to proceed with an application for a few reasons.

One was my current responsibility at the time as governor of the bank of Canada and the personal aspects of the move. I have a young family and the transition of countries and schools here and then back was in the end decisive. It was a finely balanced decision.

What changed was that subsequent to that decision, the chancellor suggested to me the that the position could be for a period of 5 years and secondly I was informed that Charlie Bean had agreed that he would extend his term for an additional year from time of selection of the governor.

10.11 The first question is why he changed his mind about taking on the role at the Bank of England. As we mentioned at 09.08, he initially ruled himself out of the role.

10.09 Mark Carney has appeared and the hearing is kicking off.

09.58 Phil Aldrick, the Telegraph's economics editor, has this dispatch from the front line:

09.56 No sign of Mark Carney or the Treasury Select Committee yet - well, not according to the live stream on Parliament's website anyway.

09.49 Mark Carney should be up any minute now. In the words of Katie Martin from Dow Jones:

09.39 Lee Darby of Investec had this to say ahead of Mark Carney's appearance:

Mark Carney will sit before the Treasury Select Committee at 9.45am and is likely to be pushed on the inflation mandate, banking reforms and the use of further quantitative easing. For sterling the key issue will be how he approaches inflation and growth. If he hints that he is prepared to let inflation run higher in exchange for higher growth rates then much of the recent doom and gloom towards sterling will be justified and could be stepped up if his tone on the recent growth figures is particularly downbeat.

09.35 If you want to hear every word of Carney's testimony, we'll be showing a live stream of the meeting at the top of this page. It'll go live at 0945.

09.30 Carney's appearance isn't the only excitement on the horizon today. While Carney speaks in Westminster, Sir Mervyn King will be chairing one of the final Monetary Policy Committee meetings of his term. Stephanie Flanders, the BBC's economics editor, has this handy reminder for Carney:

<noframe>Twitter: Stephanie Flanders - Mark Carney note to self: it's called the MONETARY POLICY COMMITTEE and there are NINE members not 1....</noframe>

09.22 So Mark Carney might be the rock star/George Clooney (delete as appropriate) of central banking, but what does he actually think? Here's Telegraph Finance's take on a couple of his economic views:

In Canada, at the onset of the financial crisis, Carney made an early, bold public commitment to keep rates at rock bottom for a year - come what may - to restore market confidence, and hinted at Davos last month that he will carry his radical approach into his next job.

His likely approach to quantitative easing is less clear, though - Canada never had to confront money-printing, so this is not something of which Carney has personal experience, though given his preference for ultra-low interest rates, it seems likely he will embrace the practice.

Carney made economic waves in December when he raised the prospect of changing the Bank's 2pc inflation target, which has been enshrined in law since 1998. The way things stand, the Bank of England must send an explanatory letter to the Treasury when it fails to hit this target - something which has happened every month since November 2009.

The incoming Canadian suggested the Bank's efforts could instead be geared towards a GDP growth target. As he sees it, the central bank can let inflation run high for longer to boost growth, perhaps for as long as three years, as long as its reasons are clearly explained.

09.13 The audience for Mark Carney is thin on the ground so far according to Paul Waldie, European bureau chief of the Globe and Mail:

<noframe>Twitter: Paul Waldie - Mark Carney may be a rock star to some but only 6 people here to watch his appearance at a UK committee hearing, 4 are reporters.</noframe>

09.08 So how did Mark Carney end up taking up the mantle from Sir Mervyn King? Bearing in mind that Carney was the man who ruled himself out, his appointment came as something of a surprise.

In October, Carney had insisted he remained committed to his current role, though it has since emerged he formally applied for the role, albeit after the application period closed.

When asked if he would ever enter politics, he replied: "I definitely don't want to answer that. Look, I am doing my job. I am going to do my job. It's pretty simple, I've got two years and change, at least, left on my mandate.

"Why don't I become a circus clown? I appreciate the great concern about my career but I have gainful employment and I intend to continue it."

But one month later, Carney had got the job of Bank of England governor.

¡°He is quite simply the best, most experienced and most qualified person in the world to be the next Governor and to help steer Britain¡¯s families and businesses through these difficult economic times,¡± an unrestrained George Osborne said on unveiling the appointment.

George Osborne described Mark Carney as "quite simply the best".

08.58 Jeremy Warner, assistant editor at the Telegraph, has come up with ten questions MPs might consider putting to Mark Carney. I'm sure we all want to hear the MPs ask whether Mr Carney is "really the George Clooney of central banking"...

1. Taking into account your 250,000 housing allowance, your pay is to be set at 874,000 a year, or 33 times the national average and more than double what the present incumbent, Sir Mervyn King earns. Are you worth it?

2. Should the Bank of England¡¯s inflation target be abandoned and replaced with something else?

3. Is there much more the Bank of England can do to stimulate the UK¡¯s moribund economy, and if so what?

4. Where did the Bank of England go wrong in the lead up to the crisis and in its response to it?

5. Will you adopt an easier approach to the banks in an attempt to stop them deleveraging and get credit flowing again?

6. Are you worried about the high degree of expectation vested in your appointment? Given the billing, can you only disappoint?

7. Are you really the George Clooney of central banking?

8. Is monetary policy maxed out, or is there more that can be done?

9. Are you worried about the challenges of exiting from the vast amount of quantitative easing the Bank of England has already enacted? Can this be achieved without a bond market rout?

10. Are you worried that central bank independence is being compromised by the pressures for action from governments, as is occurring in Japan with Abenomics?

Is Mark Carney really the George Clooney of central banking? Answers on a postcard.

08.53 While we're waiting for Carney's moment in the spotlight, let's remind ourselves of the Canadian's history.

Carney has a background at Goldman Sachs. After working in the investment bank's London, Tokyo, New York and Toronto offices, he became deputy governor of the Bank of Canada in 2003.

He left in November 2004 for a senior position in Canada's finance department, which included being the country's G7 deputy. He became Bank of Canada governor in 2008.

The 47-year-old banker has strong ties with the UK. He is married to a British woman, studied at Oxford University and lived in London for a time while working for Goldman Sachs for 13 years.

Time magazine named Carney as one of the world's most influential people in 2010 for helping keep the country's banks safe through the global financial crisis.

Mark Carney, the new Governor of the Bank of England, and his wife Diana.

08.45 Kathleen Brooks, research director at currency trader forex.com, outlined for the Telegraph what the currency markets want to hear from the Canadian.

The market wants to see just how dovish Carney actually is.

A dovish testimony may include Carney supporting GDP targeting at the BoE, since GDP was negative in Q4 2012 and the UK is on the edge of a triple-dip recession, this would make further policy stimulus more likely once Carney takes the reigns later this year.

If he sounds a more cautious tone, especially around the high level of inflation, then we could see the market react by buying the pound and selling UK government bonds (Gilts), pushing up yields.

We believe there is a chance the Governor-elect will be more neutral than the market expects.

He may take the pragmatic route, saying that he will adjust policy according to the economic situation at the time. He may also elaborate on how the BoE could target GDP at the same time as keeping inflation under control.

08.40 Carney's imminent appearance has been making an impact on the currency markets. Sterling was looking wobbly yesterday, nearing a six-month low against the dollar. Investors were betting on more losses if Carney flags more aggressive policy easing to support the economy.

In January, Carney said that monetary policy was not "maxed out" in major economies and that there was room to do more. He has also suggested in the past targeting nominal economic growth rather than inflation, as the Bank of England does at present.

Mark Carney's new office: The Bank of England

08.35 This morning's appearance in front of MPs presents Carney's first chance to show how he plans to fix Britain's stagnant economy.

After taking over at the Bank of Canada in 2008 - where he remains governor until moving to the Bank of England in July - Mr Carney earned a reputation for protecting his home country from the global financial crisis and he now faces the challenge of getting Britain out of a rut of almost zero growth.

Questioning from MPs is likely to focus on just how he plans to kick-start the economy.

08.30 Good morning and welcome to the Telegraph's live coverage of Mark Carney, the Bank of England's next governor, facing questions from Parliament's Treasury Select Committee. He will be up from 09.45 and faces a three-hour grilling.