Mortgage rates have remained unchanged for the second consecutive day at San Francisco-based lender, Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), according to the latest data. With regards to current refinance rates at this mortgage provider, the benchmark 30-year FRM is published at a rate of 4.500%. The 15-year fixed refinance loan could be appealing to some mortgage shoppers as it still carries 3.625% in interest. Borrowers, who are not eligible for conventional loans, may want to take a look at FHA-insured mortgages. These type of loans usually come with lower down payment conditions than standard conventional mortgages. Currently, the 30-year fixed FHA mortgage is available at a rate of 4.250%. Turning attention to the lender¡¯s adjustable rate loan offerings, the 5-year ARM is quoted at a rate of 3.250%. Another flexible refinance loan option is the 5-year ARM FHA, which is published at a rate of 3.250% on Tuesday. For additional information on Wells Fargo¡¯s latest refinance rates, as well as details on home purchase loan rates, please check the data below.

Wells Fargo offers excellent mortgage interest rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those potential borrowers who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some ideal mortgage offerings at this lender.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in New Haven, Connecticut. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

Please, bear in mind, that the present mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

For more information on Wells Fargo¡¯s home purchase and refinance mortgage interest rates, as well as details on loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, please check the bank¡¯s website.