Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. is preparing to file for an initial public offering in the U.S. as soon as April, according to people with knowledge of the matter.

China¡¯s largest e-commerce company is working with New York-based law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP as it gets ready to sell shares, said two of the people, who asked not to be identified as the process is private. The filing may even come this month, one of the people said. Shares of Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO), which owns a 24 percent stake in Alibaba, rose on the news.

Alibaba is opting for a U.S. listing as it struggles to persuade Hong Kong regulators to approve a proposed governance structure, the people said. Even after filing for a U.S. offering, Alibaba could still decide to list in Hong Kong should regulators there approve its plan to give executives control over board nominations, one of the people said.

Alibaba may not outline its fundraising target from the IPO ¡ª a step typically taken just before a company begins to formally market its IPO to investors ¡ª for several months after the initial filing, one of the people said. The sale has the potential to be the largest first-time share offering since Facebook raised $16 billion in May 2013.

Alibaba¡¯s expansion since former English teacher Jack Ma started the company in his Hangzhou apartment in 1999 with two dozen items for sale mirrors China¡¯s emergence as an economic superpower. The success has made Ma, 49, one of China¡¯s richest people, with an estimated net worth of $11.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.

The IPO would allow Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo to begin selling its stake ¡ª which could be worth $37 billion at the average of analysts¡¯ estimates of Alibaba¡¯s value. Yahoo rose as much as 2.6 percent, and was last up 1.1 percent to $37.64 at 2:12 p.m. in New York today.

¡°A lot of people are investing in Yahoo as a proxy for Alibaba ¡ª in fact, I would say the majority of people are,¡± Colin Gillis, a New York-based analyst at BGC Partners, said in a phone interview. He rates Yahoo shares a hold and doesn¡¯t own them personally. ¡°We¡¯ve all been waiting.¡±

Alibaba has codenamed the IPO ¡°Avatar,¡± said two of the people. Companies and investment banks use codenames in case documents are inadvertently seen by people not involved on a deal. Reuters reported the IPO¡¯s codename earlier today.

Florence Shih, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Alibaba, said the company has no timeline for an IPO and hasn¡¯t picked banks to manage a sale or a venue. A spokeswoman for Simpson Thacher declined to comment.

The company generated $2.8 billion in net income attributable to ordinary shareholders in the year through September, according to quarterly filings by Yahoo. Revenue in the period was $6.7 billion.

After starting as a business-to-business marketplace on Alibaba.com, the company has morphed into a more consumer-focused operation. Its most popular platforms include Taobao Marketplace, which links individual buyers and sellers, and Tmall.com, which connects consumers to retail brands such as Microsoft Corp., and Japanese clothing chain Uniqlo.

Alibaba is valued at $153 billion according to the average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. That¡¯s about 23 times annual sales. Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)¡¯s $171 billion market value is about 2.3 times 2013 sales, and EBay Inc. fetches about 4.6 times sales with a market value of about $75 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

¡°Alibaba from day one has been based around making money, and it¡¯s a real Chinese Internet success story,¡± said Mark Tanner, the founder of China Skinny, a Shanghai-based research and marketing agency. ¡°Alibaba is huge now but will just continue to get a lot bigger.¡±

A U.S. share sale by Alibaba would be a blow to Hong Kong, which hasn¡¯t hosted an IPO of more than $4 billion since October 2010.

Alibaba asked Hong Kong¡¯s exchange to allow a partnership of executives and shareholders to nominate the majority of board members, a person with knowledge of the matter said in August. That would enable Ma, who owns 7.4 percent, and his management team to maintain control.

Hong Kong¡¯s bourse doesn¡¯t allow share classes with different voting rights, as the U.S. does. Such arrangements helped Zuckerberg and Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin keep control of their companies after they went public.

¡°This is not a mere profit sharing mechanism, nor is it a vehicle of power to exert greater control over the company,¡± Ma said in a Sept. 10 e-mail to employees explaining the partnership. The company has 28 partners, Ma said.

Alibaba would ¡°never¡± change its partnership structure, Reuters cited Executive Vice Chairman Joseph Tsai as saying in an interview on March 12.