There will be no press conference or forecast update after the Jan. 31 FOMC meeting ¨C Janet Yellen¡¯s last as chair of the U.S. Federal Reserve ¨C and there probably won¡¯t be any policy changes either, but that doesn¡¯t mean the market won¡¯t be watching closely.

As always, the committee will issue a policy statement, but it is unlikely to alter the currency assessment of economic conditions, or to change its forward guidance.

¡°The January FOMC meeting will serve in part as a farewell to chair Yellen, but is unlikely to result in any significant new signals for the market,¡± said Peter Hooper, chief economist at Deutsche Bank.
 Powell taking over as Fed chairman at time of economic calm
 What Powell brings to Fed post: A gift for forging consensus
 Fed is likely to hold rates steady at Yellen¡¯s final meeting

However, there will be some key messages to monitor, and potential changes to the Fed¡¯s statement. That should include a mention that job gains have been healthy, and that business investment is improving.

Kevin Logan, chief U.S. economist at HSBC Securities, anticipates that references to hurricane-related disruptions will also be removed.

¡°We think the January policy statement will do nothing to diminish the expectation of the Fed taking another 25 basis point step along the path of policy normalization in March,¡± Logan said, noting that futures are pricing in a nearly 90 per cent chance of a 25 bp hike at the March 21 meeting. ¡°We expect an upbeat assessment of the economy.¡±

The FOMC has projected three 25 bp rate hikes in 2018, but Logan believes that will be limited to two as a result of persistently low inflation.

The committee has recently only altered policy at meetings that are followed by a press conference for the chair. The next time that occurs will be on March 21, which will be Jerome Powell¡¯s first.

Yellen¡¯s term expires on Feb. 3, when Powell will take over as chair, bringing with him a new FOMC voting panel that will lean slightly more hawkish.

However, he is the longest-serving member of the Federal Reserve Board, after being appointed in 2012. So Powell deserves some credit and blame for the results of Fed policy.

When he joined, the unemployment rate was 8.2 per cent, compared to an average of 4.4 per cent last quarter. Meanwhile, the core rate of PCE inflation averaged 1.5 per cent, below the Fed¡¯s target of 2.0 per cent.

¡°That might be viewed as a policy failure, but Powell did support the generally dovish policies pursued by Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen in an effort to get the inflation rate moving higher,¡± Logan said.

The economist believes Powell is one of the FOMC members projecting three 25 bp rate hikes for 2018, but also thinks he is willing to change his mind as the economic picture evolves.

As for Yellen, many believe she would have received a second term were it not for the peculiar situation in Washington these days.

Derek Holt, head of capital markets economics at Scotiabank, believes Yellen is exiting with a perfect record for both communication and leadership.

¡°Chair Yellen will be a gracious professional right up to her last meeting at the helm,¡± Holt said. ¡°While I would be surprised to see Yellen deliver any big parting messages ¡ª that¡¯s not her style ¡ª it is possible that this statement has a somewhat more hawkish tinge to it.¡±

One reason the Fed may be more confident is that its previous meeting in December occurred before final passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

Holt also noted that core PCE inflation has gathered more momentum since bottoming in August, so the Fed could signal that related headwinds are easing.

The depreciation of the U.S. dollar since the last Fed meeting is another important factor, as the central bank¡¯s own research estimates every 10 per cent decline in the greenback adds a half percentage point to inflation within two quarters. The economist believes that could help reverse the dollar-induced inflation downturn that occurred in 2017.

Lastly, while GDP growth wasn¡¯t able to exceed three per cent in the fourth quarter, the U.S. economy managed to finish off the year with three consecutive quarters of healthy growth.