The bill, sponsored by Rep. Chris Kelly, D-Columbia, would allow anyone over the age of 21 to use, grow and sell marijuana legally. It would also impose a 25 percent tax on pot, as well as set up a system of state licensing for growers and sellers.

[quote_right]¡±The billions of dollars we¡¯ve spent on the war on drugs has probably not stopped one person from smoking one joint. And it¡¯s ruined the lives of tens of thousands of people¡±[/quote_right]

Under the system, each county would be allowed to have one retailer for every 2,500 people. If passed, St. Louis County could have 400 retailers, while 127 would be allowed in the city.

The bill would also allow pot users without a license to keep and transport a pound of marijuana, a pound of hashish and more than a half-gallon of hashish oil.

Kelly told The Huffington Post that his experience as a circuit judge changed his position on legalization. ¡°I saw a lot of marijuana cases,¡± he said.

Currently in Missouri, you can spend up to a year in prison for possession of a single joint, even if it¡¯s your first offense. In 2011, about 20,000 people were busted for marijuana crimes in the state, and over 90 percent of those arrests were just for possession, according to the Marijuana Policy Project.

¡°The billions of dollars we¡¯ve spent on the war on drugs has probably not stopped one person from smoking one joint. And it¡¯s ruined the lives of tens of thousands of people,¡± Kelly said over the phone Wednesday. ¡°Once you¡¯re convicted, you carry that around. You can¡¯t get into school. You can¡¯t get a job. And the question is, for what?¡±

Kelly will also added a referendum clause to the bill, meaning that if lawmakers pass it, it will go to voters to decide. ¡°It¡¯s such a fundamental change to the law, the people probably have to participate,¡± Kelly explained, adding that he doesn¡¯t think lawmakers would approve it otherwise. ¡°There¡¯s no way you could pass it straight through the legislature. But they [state legislators] might let the people decide,¡± he said.

If the people get a chance to decide, there¡¯s reason to believe they would legalize the drug. A survey performed in September 2012 found a majority of Missouri residents supported taxing and regulating marijuana like alcohol.