SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡ª After decades supporting a political and economic creed that honored affordable and accessible home ownership, Washington is trying to shift gears on a $9.9 trillion system without grinding the machine to an abrupt halt.

A bipartisan team from the Senate Banking Committee reached an agreement Tuesday on a broad bill that would unwind Fannie Mae FNMA, +6.77% and Freddie Mac FMCC, +7.73% the government-sponsored mortgage companies bailed out by taxpayers and placed under conservatorship during the financial crisis. Read: What one big fund is saying about Fannie, Freddie.

The plan replaces the god of government backed housing for a more private-market model. It would replace Fannie and Freddie with a new system of federally insured mortgage securities in which private insurers would be required to take initial losses before any government guarantee would be triggered.

Private enterprise was all but eliminated from the mortgage finance process as banks dumped massive amounts of mortgages into the laps of Fannie and Freddie in the run up to the meltdown. The government and taxpayers gradually shouldered the entire mortgage load.

The intended benefit of the system was that it made housing cheaper and available even to those with less than credit-worthy profiles. The unintended consequence was an uncompetitive and distorted marketplace where home buyers underpaid for their loans and the risk was borne by everyone.

The trick for the new bill will be its ability to reintroduce some shared risk-taking and market pricing to an industry that was, if not socialized, then financially engineered by the government in the politically driven zest to create the widest, easiest path to a ¡°man¡¯s (or woman¡¯s) castle.¡±

Ultimately, prices will certainly go up as private insurers, bond originators and investors will demand more of a premium to offset risk. To shift a system built over four decades amid a fragile housing recovery will take a lot of patience and political nerve ¡ª the lack of which got us into this mess in the first place.

What one big fund is saying about Fannie and Freddie

Want this type of analysis sent to your inbox? Subscribe to MarketWatch's free MarketWatch First Takes newsletter. Sign up here.