This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... been been been BdB ... I ... time to eat a banana and I ... understand and manage the horizon and I didn't know anyone that I would go on and have a cool wooden you ... can escape ... are you I you can ... manage that ... school shoot you in the commercial ... if you're not ... old you don't ever call Chiquita Brands pulled off a big deal in that space today that's why were running that that's what the new spring to buy our competitor fights for one billion ... creating the single largest company in that industry ... with so much to the market already in the hands of a couple players ... will a new company fly with regulators Peter Evans joins from London ... with the D tells on this story morning how are you ... I've that yet but up ninety three ... I'm pretty good so I ... what does this new Company lookalike ... oh well it's as it expects that much expanded um um via component of parts ... and ... there's sixty thousand employees up from ... twenty thousand ... times ten outlets both awesome said today that Malkins second resetting a hundred and sixty million boxes Abenomists every year said it is pretty massive that said as an itemized ... and that the momentum to ... break ... this is a lot so the numbers in history make clear this is an expanding market ... while this deal why now ... and yet that the mindful Fernandez is gearing up so if you buy by Maine the kind of ... improvements in shaping technology saves that he's been on this can be ... that still within ... a ... terms post them up in twenty days now was previously was around to that is around forty five so that's kind of this is facing this them on posts as it spent listening not that's about ... emerging markets Amman wet previously been on is ... probably would have been shipped says it is ... it's common driving the market that say it makes sense for the two companies which have caught of ... guard the spread of dope fiends between them and to do this to you right now and ... to ride the wave of that of expanding ... the non of them on ... well ... what the story the market is pretty much already controlled like a couple of companies these are two of them ... lived although lot due to the other ones ... will regulators anything to say about this deal ... that's kind of books I'm was interesting ... observers of them I'm an artist and it's out with them within the management team and they said ... they said ... that Joker fees of the two companies up a deal ... to take the wet Alliance a date in visits to many of them that so ... I see say I think ... I think as a sensory eighteen the son of both labeled been on a surprise that Sweeney school ... full companies and is a miser that swing to them is ... is that is bounce this is I'm attract the attention of units is our innate that it's time ... to be commiting speaks to you the EU and US anti trust I'm also see safe status on the mind of weather ... weather goes out of my street scene but they seem to become the