Andy Jalil ¨C Foreign Correspondent ¡ª HOPES for a strong economic recovery in the euro zone have been lifted by figures showing a rise in retail sales and a 32-month high in private sector growth. Data firm Markit released its latest composite purchasing managers¡¯ index (PMI) for the euro area showing a score of 53.3 for last month. While all scores above 50 indicate economic growth, the number is the highest noted by the firm since mid-2011. The index particularly for the service sector came in at 52.6, up from 51.6 and that was also at its highest over the same period. Chief economist at Markit, Chris Williamson said: ¡°The final PMI indicates that the euro zone economy grew at the fastest rate after June 2011.¡± He added: ¡°The survey suggests the region is on course to grow by 0.4 per cent to 0.5 per cent in the first quarter.¡±

Figures published last week in Brussels supported an earlier estimate showing that the euro area grew by 0.3 per cent in the last quarter of 2013. The currency union¡¯s business climate indicator also showed some raised confidence last month with a score of 0.37, up 0.12 points from the previous month. The index runs in close correlation with industrial production in the region. Money supply and credit figures released by European Central Bank (ECB) indicated, however, that conditions in the area are still far from adequate. The M3 measure of the money supply rose by 1.2 per cent in the year to January, which was much lower than the ECB¡¯s previous suggested level of 4.5 per cent. Capital Economics¡¯ spokesman, Jonathan Loynes had said: ¡°While the euro zone activity data has continued to show some improvement, the combination of very low inflation, the strong euro and falling liquidity in the banking sector has maintained pressure on the ECB to provide further policy support.¡±

However, the euro strengthened against other major currencies at the end of last week, following the ECB¡¯s decision not to ease monetary policy further, and official forecasts of low inflation for years to come. Some economists had suggested that the central bank might choose to cut rates, but ECB president, Mario Draghi announced no new measures. Euro zone inflation will still be only 1.7 per cent in the final quarter of 2016, below the target level, according to new forecasts. Draghi insisted that expectations for inflation were still ¡°firmly anchored¡±. Many euro zone states are recording extremely low inflation, while Cyprus and Greece are in a state of deflation. Of the four largest economies in the euro zone, only German inflation is above one per cent, while French, Italian and Spanish figures are at 0.8, 0.6 and 0.3 per cent respectively.

¡°The ECB seems perfectly content to sit on its hands for the foreseeable future and quite possibly won¡¯t have to seriously consider changes to policy until the next forecasting round in June,¡± said Marchel Alexandrovich, senior vice-president at Jeffries International. The ECB also expect slightly stronger growth, with GDP growth forecast to rise 1.2 per cent this year, 0.1 percentage points higher than previously. Investors and politicians are hoping that the euro zone can gain momentum this year as it attempts to recover from a severe downturn. Retail sales were up 1.6 per cent in January, compared to December. Compared with one year earlier, retail sales in January were up 1.3 per cent. However, there are discrepancies between countries in the euro zone when looking at the strength of their economic recovery. Markit¡¯s service centre PMI numbers included a three-year high in Italy, where a quarter of decline turned into a modest growth last month. And Germany¡¯s services industry rose to a two and a half year high with growth of 55.9 in February, up from 53.1.

Spain fared better too with a score of 53.7 indicating growth, while the GDP figures just released for the fourth quarter of 2013, showed growth of 0.2 per cent, very slightly lower than expectations. But France¡¯s service sector is still contracting, according to Markit. Its PMI score for February fell to 47.2 from 48.9 in the previous month, showing an even steeper rate of decline. Meanwhile outside the euro zone, the UK¡¯s services sector saw its PMI score dip to 58.3 in January, from 58.8 at the end of last year. The number disappointed analysts, yet many were quick to note that it still points to robust growth. Economist Nick Beecroft, of Saxo Capital Markets said: ¡°The sub-components still make excellent reading, with the key employment index moving higher along with the outstanding business index which, at 55.3 stands at its highest since 1997.¡±