POLICE investigating the mystery disappearance of Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 have raided the house of the chief pilot in a bid to uncover anything strange about his behaviour in the days leading up to the ill-fated flight.

But Malaysian authorities tonight denied the raid even occurred. Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said the reports were not true.

Police sources said they had questioned the pilot¡¯s family and are investigating if there were any underlying mental or psychological issues but say it is a routine part of their investigation.

The pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, has been described as an ¡°aviation geek¡±, devoted entirely to his job and who had more than 18,000 flying hours during his three decades at Malaysian Airlines.

Police have said that as part of their probe into the missing airliner that they are looking at four areas ¡ª hijack, sabotage and psychological and personal problems with the passengers or crew.

They have been combing through all the CCTV footage from Kuala Lumpur airport of every passenger and crew member on the flight to witness the behaviour of all 239 before they boarded the plane that evening.

Police sources have confirmed that officers have gone to the pilot Capt Shah¡¯s home to question his family but stress it is a normal part of their investigation and there is no suggestion at this stage of anything untoward or of anything wrong with the pilot.

Malaysia Airlines have described Captain Shah as ¡°a very seasoned pilot¡± with a track record of excellent service and say there was no indication of anything untoward about his behaviour.

It comes as the search for the missing plane enters its sixth day and now covers an area of a massive 27,000 square nautical miles in two separate areas ¡ª the Malacca Strait and the South China Sea.

Authorities are continuing to search in both areas ¡ª in the South China Sea where the plane dropped off civilian radar and where Chinese satellites picked up images of what appeared to be debris on the weekend ¡ª and in the Malacca Strait, where an unidentified aircraft was logged about 45 minutes later, at 2.15am, 200 miles northwest of Penang.

There have been sightings from people in both areas of what appeared to be a plane at the times MH370 is said to have disappeared.

An oil rig worker has also reported seeing what looked like a plane burning for 10 to 15 seconds from his oil rig, 300km southeast of the Vietnamese island of Vung Tau, in the area where the plane disappeared from civilian radar.

And at least six different groups of locals in the Kota Baru region, on the western side of Malaysia, near the Thai border, have reported seeing a low-flying aircraft between 1.30am and 1.45am on the morning of March 7. The reports come from fishermen, a farmer and a local security officer ¡ª all of whom have made police reports.

Police say they are taking all the reports seriously, especially as the fishermen are out in the ocean every night fishing and know well the different flight paths and what is normal and abnormal for aircraft flying overhead.

While the search, with 42 ships and 39 aircraft continues, a police task force is hunting down every detail they can find about all the passengers in a bid to identify anything suspicious.

They are studying video from the Kuala Lumpur airport and looking closely at the behaviour of all passengers and crew in the hours before they boarded the plane.

¡°We are looking very closely at the video footage taken on the whole of KLIA (the airport) from the seventh (March) until the plane takeoff. So we are studying the behavioural pattern of all the passengers,¡± Malaysia¡¯s police chief, Insp General Tan Sri Khalid Abu Bakar said.

Colleagues have paid tribute to the chief pilot and have told that Capt Shah was so passionate about this job that he even had a homemade Boeing 777 simulator at his home which he would often use to help hone his skills.

And as a mark of respect to the passengers and crew of MH370, Malaysian Airlines has announced that the flight codes MH370 and MH371 will be retired from the Kuala Lumpur-Beijing routes.

From tomorrow the routes will be renamed MH318 and MH319.

¡°Our thoughts and prayers remain with the families of our colleagues and passengers of MH370,¡± Malaysian Airlines said in a statement