In a saga going back to last autumn, Men¡¯s Wearhouse Inc. (NYSE: MW) announced Tuesday morning that it has entered a definitive agreement to acquire Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. (NASDAQ: JOSB) in an all-cash deal for $65.00 a share, or total consideration of $1.8 billion. The final price is $1.50 per share more than Men¡¯s Wearhouse offered in late February.

The story began last October when the smaller Jos. A. Bank offered to acquire Men¡¯s Wearhouse for $48 a share, an offer that was rejected and soon withdrawn. Then Men¡¯s Wearhouse offered $55 a share to acquire Jos. A. Bank. As part of that offer, Men¡¯s Wearhouse said that it ¡°expect[ed] a smooth integration as there will be no rebranding or remodels required ¡ª Jos. A. Bank¡¯s store banner will remain in place. Management will consist of the most qualified individuals from both companies.¡±

In the final deal, Men¡¯s Wearhouse kept its bargain, saying there will be no re-branding and that management ¡°will consist of the most qualified individuals from both companies.¡± The combined stores will have more than 1,700 locations and pro forma revenue of about $3.5 billion.

Men¡¯s Wearhouse¡¯s offer represents a premium of 56% to Jos. A. Bank¡¯s closing price when the smaller store first made its offer for Men¡¯s Wearhouse. Jos. A. Bank has terminated its agreement to acquire Eddie Bauer as a condition of the merger, which could result in a claim from Bauer¡¯s owner, Everest Holdings. Jos. A. Bank also terminated its previously announced tender offer to purchase up to $300 million worth of its outstanding stock.

The Men¡¯s Wearhouse tender offer to Jos. A. Bank stockholders has been extended to a new expiration date of March 19, and the cash paid per share has been raised from $63.50 to $65.00. The merger is expected to close in the third quarter of this year, pending required regulatory approvals.

Men¡¯s Wearhouse stock was up about 5.6% at $57.54, after posting a new 52-week high of $58.80 earlier in the morning. The 52-week low is $28.95.

Jos. A. Bank shares were up about 3.8% to $64.15, after posting a new high of $64.63. The 52-week low is $38.36.