WASHINGTON ¡ª In Maine, the insurer that has enrolled the most Affordable Care Act customers isn¡¯t the state¡¯s well- established Blue Cross Blue Shield plan, owned by WellPoint Inc. It¡¯s WellPoint¡¯s only rival: Maine Community Health Options, a startup that didn¡¯t exist three years ago.

The newcomer, funded primarily by taxpayer money lent under the U.S. health-care law, has won about 80 percent of the market so far in Maine¡¯s new insurance exchange, exceeding its own expectations, said Kevin Lewis, the CEO.

Health law opponents predicted early on that insurance co-ops created by the law would fail, and that much of the $2.1 billion they were loaned to get started would be lost. Instead, the 23 co-ops that now exist nationally have enrolled about 300,000 people in health plans by combining low premiums with a certain homespun appeal, according to company executives.

¡°We¡¯re doing really well,¡± Lewis said in a telephone interview. Taxpayers face ¡°no risk whatsoever¡± that Maine Community will go under, he said. ¡°A lot of those early, dire concerns just need to be re-examined.¡±

Kristin Binns, a spokeswoman for Indianapolis, Ind.-based WellPoint, declined to comment on her company¡¯s co-op competition.

The 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act refers to these new companies as ¡°Consumer Operated and Oriented Plans,¡± or co-ops. To be sure, not all of them have thrived. Some, such as Maryland¡¯s, have struggled to sign people up because of problems with their state¡¯s exchange while others, including Michigan¡¯s, have set premiums too high.

The successful co-ops ¡°emerged as price leaders,¡± responsible for more than a third of the lowest-premium plans offered on U.S. exchanges, according to an October report by McKinsey & Co. consultants.

Executives from these nonprofit groups in part credit innovative benefit designs, including features that offer free doctors¡¯ visits and generic drugs, and even $100 gift cards for people who get an annual physical. In Wisconsin, many customers of Common Ground Healthcare Cooperative appreciate the company¡¯s nonprofit, member-governed business model, CEO Bob DeVita said.

¡°There¡¯s a long-standing upper Midwest tradition with co- ops,¡± DeVita said in a telephone interview. ¡°I think there was a lot of pent-up demand for that.¡±

In Windsor Heights, Iowa, 35-year-old Geoffrey Wood, the chief operating officer of Startup Genome, said he signed on for the state¡¯s co-op, CoOportunity Health, because he had grown tired of dealing with his previous insurer, Aetna Inc.¡¯s subsidiary Coventry Health Care Inc.

¡°Given the choice between them, as the incumbent company, and an innovative company trying to do something different, I didn¡¯t feel like I had much choice,¡± Wood said in a telephone interview. ¡°I decided to give the new guy a shot.¡±

Cynthia Michener, an spokeswoman for Hartford, Conn.-based Aetna, said Coventry¡¯s advantages for enrollees include experience with the Iowa health-care system and stability.

¡°Coventry Health Care has served Iowans for more than two decades, and knows the community and its health-care needs well,¡± Michener said in an email. ¡°We have long-standing experience of providing health insurance and benefits and helping members access care, and a track record of financial stability to pay claims.¡±

About 4 million Americans have signed up for private health plans using new marketplaces created by the law, the U.S. government says. The Congressional Budget Office projects 6 million will enroll this year, a reduction of 1 million from estimates before the troubled introduction of the law began in October.

It hasn¡¯t been a smooth road for some of the co-ops. The computer bugs and errors that prevented many Americans from signing up for coverage in October and November took a toll and, in some states, the startups continue to struggle.

Co-ops in Maryland, Oregon and Massachusetts, for instance, haven¡¯t hit their target enrollments because their state-run exchanges still aren¡¯t functioning well. And Vermont¡¯s co-op dissolved in September, returning its federal solvency loans, after state regulators denied it an insurance license, saying the company¡¯s enrollment expectations were unrealistic and its proposed rates weren¡¯t competitive.

Along with Maine, co-ops have attained large market share in New York, Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, Kentucky, Wisconsin, South Carolina, Utah, Montana, Nevada and New Mexico, said John Morrison, a board member and founding president of the co-op trade group, and other executives.