You may have heard of Bitcoin. It is a digital currency that can be volatile and unpredictable. It is illiquid. And one of the largest Bitcoin trading websites has been taken offline, knocking the value of a single Bitcoin down by roughly 3 percent to a record low.

The termination of Mt.Gox, the trading website, has put at risk millions of Bitcoins. The CEO, Mark Karpeles, resigned from the Bitcoin Foundation board of directors, leaving the state of the currency uncertain.

Shortly thereafter, the founder of another Bitcoin exchange was found dead in an apparent suicide in Singapore.

Still, several local business are offering their services and products and accepting Bitcoin as payment.

To understand why businesses would accept the currency of the Internet, whether they be online or brick and mortar, first we need to understand what a Bitcoin is.

Bitcoin is a digital cryptocurrency and peer-to-peer payment system. Transactions between two parties are sent and received anonymously through coded messages from one Bitcoin address - a string of randomly generated numbers - to another, similar to sending and receiving emails without having name, location or other identifiable data tagged with it. Its close scrutiny comes from the anonymity of transactions and its unregulated market.

Each Bitcoin is "mined" - a process that involves users confirming transactions in return for Bitcoins - and generated by a unique code. Once a Bitcoin is mined and in the market, it can be sent between users or purchased, much like stocks and bonds can be traded between individuals. Bitcoins are stored in "wallets."

"Think of it as this lottery software that eventually, if it matches, you get the coin," said Richard McGrath, a professor of economics at Armstrong Atlantic State University.

The software that is Bitcoin is seen as a possible alternative to traditional currency such as paper money. Speculators comprise a majority of Bitcoin activity, making price volatility one reason to forgo commercial adoption. It's for this reason, and the appeal of a deregulated and decentralized market away from the prying hands of Uncle Sam, that many believe Bitcoin is a novelty with no real future.

"It's kind of interesting stuff. Is it possible this could take hold over time? Yes," McGrath said. "For a business owner, is the effort in expense worth the payoff? It depends on the business you're in. In the legitimate economy right now, it's a novelty."

Locally, at least four business accept Bitcoin payments: Anonymous Tattoo, Roma Pizza, Kleo's Sewing Studio and an online plant terrarium store sproutsouth. Locations that offer goods or services in exchange for Bitcoin can be found online at coinmap.org.

Zach Acosta was an investor in Bitcoin before he saw the opportunity to bring it to his father's business, Roma Pizza in Bloomingdale.

"I'd like to see it really pick up and us do more transactions," Acosta said. "We've already done, you know, half a dozen now and it's been a couple of months. I'd like to see it take off phenomenally."

They hold about $70 in Bitcoin, though it fluctuates with the market. Customers who use the payment have come simply because of the novelty and an ability to use the currency after seeing a post the son wrote on Reddit, a popular social news website.

"Even if we don't do a lot of transactions it's just good for, you know, visibility and novelty aspects of it," Acosta said.

As a student studying game design at the Savannah College of Art and Design, Will Preston uses Bitcoin frequently, buying the occasional pizza with his roommate or buying gift cards he can then use in stores around town such as Target.

"Really I'm in control of my money in the same way if I were carrying cash in my pocket," Preston said, adding that he liked the advantage of not waiting on holds as he would with a normal bank, though he still banks with a traditional institution.

"If the market was more stable and more places accepted it, if there wasn't so much fear and uncertainty surrounding it, the minute it goes mainstream I'm gonna be on top of it," he said.

For others it's a serious investment for both business and personal financial gains, something Shaun Beaudry has begun instilling in his co-workers at Anonymous Tattoo on Bay Street where he is the shop manager.

"If they save that Bitcoin and don't convert it into cash right away, it will be worth more and more and more and more as time progresses because Bitcoin is deflationary, not inflationary like all of our fiat now," he said, though holding a Bitcoin out of circulation, being that it is a currency with a limited supply, will create volatility.

Beaudry purchased four Bitcoins when they were priced at $15 each. Then when coin value reached about $100 each, he convinced friends to invest in the market. The currency can be divided into eight decimal places, making 0.00000001BTC the smallest amount.

But the market does teeter, though generally upward, which brings into question its stability. So how does one know what they're paying in Bitcoin is the right price in U.S. Dollars?

In-app converters on smart devices make the transactions seem flawless. In entering what the cost of a service is, say $150 for an hour's worth of tattooing, a Bitcoin value is generated based on current market value and the transaction is completed. As an added incentive, the tattoo shop offers discounted hourly rates for anyone who pays with Bitcoin.

"The Bitcoin isn't stable long term," Beaudry said, "but within a few hours it's definitely stable."

Not only does it make promotional sense for businesses to invest in Bitcoin, but the financial practicality of not having to pay credit card transaction fees makes it almost impossible to say no to the digital currency, Beaudry says.

"We pay about 3 percent to credit cards, which you take some businesses' profit margins are 3 percent," he said. "You will double your profits by using Bitcoin, instantaneously."

Beaudry added, "I don't think Bitcoin is going anywhere. I used to be very skeptical of it because I didn't understand it. Now that I understand it, I realize it's not only going to revolutionize how we transfer money to each other, but even the network will change how we transfer stocks, houses."

The Acostas agreed, likening Bitcoins and the fear surrounding them to the adoption of cellphones and credit cards. At first they were scarce. Now it is unlikely to find someone without either.

What's most telling is the first Bitcoin transaction made at Anonymous Tattoo in mid-January to a customer who wanted ink of just that - the Bitcoin logo.