EDMONTON, AB, Mar 10, 2014/ Troy Media/ ¨C The ¡°Ukrainian Crisis¡± could be a game changer for the Canadian and global energy industry.

While the direct impact on Canada from the crisis is negligible, the fallout could be immense. The crisis has affected Ukraine¡¯s nascent natural gas industry as well as the pipelines used to transport Russian gas, but more importantly it has shown the importance of a safe, secure, politically-neutral source of energy for Europe and questions the EU¡¯s reliance on Russian gas.

The latest ¡°Ukrainian Crisis¡± began with protests over EU integration and was fuelled by the Yanukovych government¡¯s corruption, kleptocracy, and determination to quash any dissension. The protests have been bloodier and have lasted longer than any since the Orange Revolution and reignited long-smouldering geographic and ethnic divides. Yanukovych and his inner cabal have fled the country with billions of dollars, which has left Ukraine on the verge of bankruptcy. Ukraine now flounders precariously as a pawn in a game of realpolitik between Russia and the West which no one other than the Kremlin was prepared for.

International companies like Royal Dutch Shell and Chevron, both of which are willing to accept the risks associated with a poor business environment, have maintained their shale gas exploration programs in Ukraine, while ExxonMobil plans on reopening negotiations to explore the Black Sea once a new government has been elected. But in terms of the global gas industry, these are minor plays and do not impact anyone outside of Ukraine.

Ukraine¡¯s importance in the world energy market is at a transit point for Russian gas. The Russian pipelines which run through Ukraine supply 14 per cent of Europe¡¯s total gas imports, and Russia¡¯s threat to reduce the gas to Ukraine would affect all of Europe. However, the affect will be less than in previous disputes due to Gazprom¡¯s new Nord Stream pipeline, new storage facilities in Europe, and high levels of gas in storage.

If this crisis had happened during a cold January, the contagion within Europe could have been a disaster for EU consumers and businesses. Russia knows this and is using petro-politics to influence decisions in Brussels and throughout the EU.

With more than 25 per cent of gas consumed in Europe coming from Russia, and countries such as Germany importing the majority of its gas from Russia, Europe has little choice but to placate Russia, at least in the short term. This is a wake-up call for the EU: unless it is willing to have Russia as the hegemonic power in Europe, it must diversify its energy supplies to include new supplies from Australia, the U.S., and Canada. This will change the entire world gas industry.

Prior to the ¡°crisis¡±, the U.S. was planning to export large amounts of gas to Asia, but delays in the widening of the Panama Canal have meant that the large LNG super tankers, designed to ship LNG to Asia, will not be able to travel through the canal until at least 2016. This means that there is extra shipping capacity from North America to anywhere ¨C including Europe ¨C that can handle the large LNG super tankers. It makes political, economic and logistical sense to move gas from the U.S. Gulf Coast to Europe. The ¡°Ukraine Crisis¡±, as bloody as it is, provides opportunities for the Canadian industry, which, until now, has lagged behind the U.S. in development due to a lack of export infrastructure.

Lessening the supply of U.S. LNG exports to Asia gives Canadian exporters a competitive and comparative advantage over other suppliers. The price difference, or arbitrage, between North American and Asian prices is as high as $12, meaning the price could be adjusted, benefitting both buyers and sellers, while still being competitive. Tankers from Canada¡¯s West Coast can reach Asian customers in 11 to 15 days, much shorter than vessels from the Middle East. Most important, however, Canadian supply is not subject to the same level of political and security uncertainty that affect Russian and Middle East suppliers and the ¡°Ukrainian Crisis¡± has shown security does matter.

The future of Ukraine energy is as uncertain as ever. The realpolitik moves by Russia have changed the game and sparked a conversation on the future of not only Ukraine but European energy integration in its entirety. This is a conversation that is good for Canada¡¯s LNG export industry and shows the importance of a secure and safe supply of LNG. One that Canada can supply.

Download this edited column for your publication or website. 749 words. Prices start at $14. Based on print circulation or monthly unique website visitors. FREE registration required.