Overall, mortgage rates on the majority of HSBC Bank¡¯s (NYSE:HSBC) home loans improved this mid-week, the lender¡¯s rate information revealed. One of the loans, which is offered at a lower interest rate today is the 30-year fixed home mortgage. The rate on this long-term loan has ticked down by 2 basis points since yesterday, and the current mortgage rate is coming out at 4.460%. The 15-year fixed rate home purchase loan moved in the opposite direction, as it¡¯s advertised at a slightly higher rate in the form of 3.550%. Although, interest rates were lowered on several mortgage loans at this lender on Wednesday, long-term FHA and VA loans haven¡¯t seen any improvements. Under HSBC¡¯s non-conventional loan portfolio, both the 30-year FHA and the 30-year VA mortgages stayed intact at a rate of 4.125%. As far as flexible loans are concerned, the 7/1 ARM became more attractive today, as the interest rate tumbled to 3.470%. The current interest rate is 9 basis points lower compared to yesterday¡¯s rate quote. The 5/1 ARM headed lower as well, as it now carries 3.210% in interest. For the sake of comparison, on Tuesday this loan package was offered at a rate of 3.330% at this financial institution. For more details on current mortgage interest rates, please check the data below.

HSBC Bank offers excellent interest rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing mortgage, may find some ideal loans at this bank.

Please, bear in mind, that the present mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Bankrate¡¯s (NYSE:RATE) mortgage survey released last week showed that interest rates became more attractive on popular loan packages. The interest rate on 30-year fixed loans ticked down to 4.45% from the previous 4.48% that they carried a week earlier. As for the 15-year FRM, the mortgage rate dropped by 4 basis points, according to Bankrate¡¯s survey. The aforementioned mortgage now stands at 3.46%. The more flexible 5/1 ARM averaged 3.26% in the said period, a 4 basis points downtick over the former 3.30%, the company¡¯s mortgage survey revealed.

A report from McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac from last week indicated that the average interest rate on the 30-year fixed mortgage improved to 4.28%. Regarding the 15-year FRM, the average rate sank to 3.32%, the mortgage-buyer said.

Additional information on HSBC Bank¡¯s latest home purchase mortgage interest rates, loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, can be found on the lender¡¯s website.