The Boeing 777 aircraft carrying 239 people disappeared on its way to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur on March 8, 2014 - sparking one of the world's greatest unsolved aviation mysteries. Today a new report 每 coming two months after Malaysia called off a privately funded underwater search 每 explained that MH370＊s right ＆flaperon＊ was in a neutral position as the plane crashed into the ocean. To pilots this indicates there was no-one at the helm at the time or that the pilot was incapacitated 每 perhaps by a terrorist 每 because a planned descent even on to water would have seen the flaperons deployed to slow the aircraft. No trace of the MH370 has ever been found but part of the plane＊s wing washed up on the coast of R谷union island providing crucial evidence to the competing theories about what happened to MH370 and where the wreckage lies.

The flaperon evidence leant more credence to the theory that MH370 was hijacked by terrorists and deliberately crashed. The Malaysian Government report concluded that the Boeing 777 lost contact with air traffic control after being manually re-directed 每 perhaps by a third party - after take-off. Lead investigator Kok Soo Chon said: ※What we have established is that the aircraft has turned back. We can conclude that MH370 had turned back and the turn back was not because of anomalies in the mechanical system. ※The turn back was made not under autopilot but under manual control." ※We cannot exclude the possibility that there was unlawful interference by a third party."

Many conspiracists have argued that Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah (or another pilot) was conscious at the end of the flight and that he may have deliberately orchestrated a mass murder suicide. Investigators have said this ※isn＊t likely§ with the report emphasising finding that the flaperon was not deployed, meaning that nobody was in control. In today＊s report the chief investigator said: ※Damage examination indicates that the right outboard flap was most likely in the retracted position and the right flaperon was probably at, or close to, the neutral position, at the time they separated from the wing. ※All this gives us the indication and belief that the aircraft at that time was not configured to land§. He added there was some evidence that ※points irresistibly to unlawful interference, such as the communications ceasing and the manual turn back.

However, he said there was evidence against unlawful interference, such as the fact no group had claimed credit. He also clarified that the pilot and first officer showed now psychological signs that they might have deliberately crashed the plane. He said: ※I＊m not ruling out anything, but there were two psychiatrists in my team and they were responsible for examining the audio recordings of the pilot and they concluded there was no anxiety and no stress in the recording, it was just normal, and they also recorded the footage from CCTV ... they didn＊t find any significant behavioural changes.§ The official explanation, repeated today, is that Zaharie was unconscious. With no-one at the helm, researchers assumed MH370 dived sharply and steeply once it ran out of fuel, which meant that it would have landed in the ocean close to its final satellite position. Grace Nathan, outspoken daughter of one of the passengers onboard MH370, could not contain her dismay and anger at what she called the non-findings and her fury at the malfunction of the ELTs. She said: ※Ladies and gentlemen after 4.5 years of investigation the conclusion ... is : 1. We don＊t know what happened. 2. We don＊t know why it happened. 3. We don＊t know how it happened. 4. We don＊t know what if anything is going to be done about it.

She called the failings of air traffic control in Malaysia to follow procedures ※mind-boggling§ and was shocked the aircraft was deemed to have no issues. She said: ※Yet there is no explanation why none of four transmitters on the plane sent any distress signal. But apparently these transmitters, which are on every single plane, only work 22 percent of the time.§ On May 29, Malaysia called off a three-month search by US firm Ocean Infinity that spanned 112,000 sq km (43,243 sq miles) in the southern Indian Ocean and ended with no significant findings. It was the second major search after Australia, China and Malaysia ended a fruitless A$200-million ($147 million) search across an area of 120,000 sq km (46,332 sq miles) last year.

Voice 370, a group representing the relatives, has previously urged the Malaysian government for a review of the flight, including "any possible falsification or elimination of records related to MH370 and its maintenance". The families said the report pointed to mistakes by the Malaysian air traffic control (ATC) centre. It showed there were only two attempted phone calls made to the aircraft from the ground, four to five hours apart. The investigators could not provide adequate answers as to why no other calls were made after the jetliner went off the radar, Grace added. Investigators looking into why the Boeing 777 veered thousands of miles off its scheduled route before eventually plunging into the Indian Ocean believe someone may have deliberately switched off MH370's transponder before diverting it over the Indian Ocean. Newly elected Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has said Malaysia will consider resuming the search for MH370 only if new clues come to light.

Families of the passengers that went missing on MH370 say the final report offers no new findings in the one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries. Laywer Grace Nathan was optimistic about the report. Her mother, Anne Daisy, was on the plane. She said: "We hope that these mistakes will not be repeated and that measures are put in place to prevent them in the future. The point they stressed was that this reprt was not to assign blame, it was only a safety investigation." Intan Maizura Othman said report was disappointing. Her husband was a steward on the flight.

She said: "It is so disappointing. I am frustrated. There is nothing new in the report. Those who gave the briefing from the ministry of transport were not able to give answers as they were not (the ones) who wrote the report." Calvin Shim's wife Christine Tan was a member of the crew and he admits he didn't expect anything new to come out, but it is still difficult. He told Sky News: "It's difficult because we have to live with not knowing why my wife has gone missing. "We need closure. I can't even tell my children what happened to their mother. We can't even have a proper ceremony or a proper place to remember my children's mother.

"I just want to find the plane and then whatever data we can get from the sea we can find what actually happened. I need the government to proactively be looking for clues and continue the search. "We want the answer of why the plane has gone missing and where it has gone. As soon as all my questions are answered it will be finished for me. As long as there is still some hope, I will still pursue it." Peter Chong was friends with the pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah and also said he wasn't satisfied with the report. He said: "I feel sad for the next of kin of MH370. "After all the hype and expectations, the report released brings forth nothing new. They are nowhere near to closure. "[It is] just another round in the emotional roller-coaster ride. I am happy to note there is no blame apportioned to anyone. However, there are also no answers as to what happened to the flight."