RALEIGH, N.C. (WNCN) - After a cool start to the work week yesterday, we'll warm back up to around 70бу this afternoon. Another cold front will move through late today, but this one won't have any moisture to work with -- so we don't have any showers in the forecast, just a few fair-weather clouds. Temperatures will cool off again Wednesday and Thursday, but the dry weather will continue for a few more days.

Our next chance of rain will move in Friday. Some of the rain could linger into the weekend, but the heaviest rain looks like it will fall late Friday and Friday night. It will be a cold rain, with highs only the 50s both Friday and Saturday. Patches of mist and drizzle will make Saturday a generally damp day, before a few glimmers of sun could appear on Sunday.

Copyright 2018 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Copyright 2018 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Tuesday will be partly cloudy and warmer with a high around 69. Winds will be from the southwest at 5 to 10 mph.

Wednesday will be mostly sunny and cooler with a high of 62, after a morning low of 42.

Thursday will be partly cloudy with a high of 58, after a morning low of 37.

Friday will be cloudy with rain becoming likely. The high will be 51, after a morning low of 43. The rain chance will be 70 percent.

Saturday will be cloudy with scattered light rain showers, mist and drizzle. The high will be 54, after a morning low of 47. The rain chance will be 50 percent.

Sunday will be mostly cloudy, with a few showers still possible. The high will be 58, a morning low of 46. The rain chance will be 30 percent.

Monday will be partly sunny and cool, with an isolated shower chance. The high will be 58, a morning low of 46. The rain chance will be 20 percent.

Follow the CBS 17 Storm Team on social media for the latest weather updates:

This forecast was prepared by the CBS 17 Storm Team and is based on the latest information available and years of weather forecasting in North Carolina. It was not produced by a computer like many forecasts you find on the web, social media and smart phone apps.