A deeper investigation into what happened the moments before Flight 370 disappeared has revealed that a pilot spoke to Malaysian air traffic control without hinting at any signs of trouble AFTER the plane¡¯s signaling system had been disabled. The revelation leaves only two options ¡ª either one of the pilots (or both) were in charge of hijacking the plane, or they were forced to play along by someone else.

In one of the strangest revelations in the case of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370¡¯s disappearance, new information shows that one of the pilots, either Zaharie Ahmad Shah or Fariq Abdul Hamid, said ¡°Alright, goodnight¡± to Malaysian air traffic controls after communication devices were disabled ¡ª but the pilot did not indicate that there was anything wrong with flight. So what does this mean?

Malaysia Flight: Pilot Had To Have Been Part Of Hijacking

It had already been determined that Flight 370¡¯s signaling system had been disabled manually, but on March 15 Malaysia¡¯s defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, confirmed that the system, which reports date about the plane¡¯s equipment, had been turned off before the pilots¡¯ last known contact with air traffic controllers, according to the New York Times.

This revelation has raised even more suspicion that one or both of the pilots were involved in hijacking the plane, because in any normal circumstance, a pilot would presumably relay that his aircraft¡¯s systems were down ¡ª or on a more extreme level, that the plane was being hijacked. But the fact that there was a content verbal signoff after systems had already turned off suggests that whoever gave the signoff was trying to mislead air traffic control.

It¡¯s become more and more apparent that whoever was in control of Flight 370 wanted it to disappear. And the complexity of the operation ¡ª turning off the plane¡¯s communication devices, diverting course, giving a signoff ¡ª is so high, that experts and U.S. officials believe the pilots ¡ª or just one of them ¡ª had to be involved.

The other possibility, however, is that the pilots were compelled to carry out this complex plan by someone who had taken over the plane.

As of now, the pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah seems to be the most likely suspect. After investigators began looking more intently at the two pilots on March 14, it was reportedly discovered that Zaharie is a fanatical, political activist who opposes the Malaysian government, according to Mail Online.

Zaharie allegedly attended the trial of opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim just hours before Flight 370 was set to take off. Anwar was sentenced to five years in prison in a court decision that has since been called unjust by many. In light of this new information, many fear that Zaharie may have hijacked Flight 370 as a form of political protest.

Additionally, Zaharie¡¯s wife and three children reportedly moved out of the family home just one day before the flight¡¯s takeoff, leading many to suggest that this tragedy may have been Zaharie¡¯s catatonic reaction to the turmoil in his personal life.

These are all questions that do not have answers yet, though ¡ª just theories. So stay tuned for further developments.
 Malaysia Flight 370: Likely Crashed In Indian Ocean On 1 Of 2 Flight Paths
 Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 Hijacked: Could It Be In Pakistan?