Investors are accepting the lowest yields on German bunds relative to Treasuries in more than seven years as the European Central Bank nourishes the euro-area recovery with a pledge to keep interest rates subdued.

The ECB¡¯s commitment to nurture tentative growth signs and to revive dormant inflation has helped euro-area government bonds outperform their U.S. peers for five straight months, pushing Spain¡¯s yields to the lowest in eight years. While its President, Mario Draghi, said last week interest rates will remain at ¡°present or lower levels for an extended period,¡± the Federal Reserve is easing back on stimulus in the U.S. by reducing its debt purchases.

¡°We should see a widening on the spread between bunds and Treasuries,¡± said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. It¡¯s ¡°caused by expectations the Fed will be one of the first central banks in the developed market to start hiking rates.¡±

Germany¡¯s 10-year yield fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 5 p.m. London time, with the spread to similar-maturity U.S. debt widening to 116 basis points, the most since June 2006 on a closing-market basis. ING¡¯s Giansanti forecast the yield gap would expand to 130 basis points in the next month. The 1.75 percent bund due in February 2024 rose 0.26, or 2.60 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,388) face amount, to 101.14.

While the decline in European yields relative to those in the U.S. points to investor faith in Draghi¡¯s pledge to backstop the bond markets, it also reflects concern the region will need more support to recover from the sovereign debt crisis. Economists predict the euro-area will expand 1.1 percent this year, compared with 2.9 percent growth in the U.S., boosting the case for the ECB to keep down borrowing costs as the Fed moves closer to ending stimulus and raising interest rates.

The average yield to maturity on euro-area bonds from Germany to Greece ended last week at 1.63 percent, just 0.06 percentage point more than the average Treasury yield, the narrowest spread since 2007, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The European securities outperformed their U.S. counterparts each month since September. Year-to-date, they¡¯re up 3 percent, versus 1.2 percent for Treasuries.

The average rate on the European securities exceeded 6 percent in 2011 when concern some nations would be unable to service their debts risked a breakup of the currency bloc.

Spanish 10-year bonds advanced today, pushing the yield six basis points lower to 3.30 percent, the least since January 2006. The yield on 10-year Italian securities declined five basis points to 3.37 percent. The rate on similar-maturity Portuguese debt fell for a fifth day, dropping 13 basis points to 4.45 percent, the lowest since April 2010.

The euro-area recovery isn¡¯t yet assured. French industrial production fell 0.2 percent in January from a month earlier, after a revised 0.6 percent drop in December, data today showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast an increase of 0.3 percent. An annual gauge of Spanish output for the same month showed a 1.1 percent increase on a seasonally adjusted basis, lower than the 1.8 percent expansion predicted in a separate survey.

Italian industrial production in January exceeded analyst estimates with a 1 percent increase from the previous month.

The euro-area annualized inflation rate was 0.8 percent last month, according to a Feb. 28 report, below the ECB¡¯s ceiling of just below 2 percent for a 13th month. It will probably be about 1.7 percent by the final quarter of 2016, Draghi said last week.

In the U.S., signs of stronger growth prompted Fed policy makers to trim monthly bond purchases by $10 billion at each of its past two meetings, curbing demand for Treasuries. U.S. employers added more workers than analysts projected in February, data last week showed, indicating the economy is starting to recover from a weather-induced setback.

Investors should buy Spanish five-year notes against similar-maturity Treasuries after the ECB left its key rate unchanged at last week¡¯s meeting, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc strategists Harvinder Sian, Michael Michaelides and Marco Brancolini in London wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.

¡°We continue to be long periphery and the ECB inertia is a buying opportunity,¡± the London-based strategists wrote. A long position is a bet an asset¡¯s value will increase.

The extra yield investors demand to hold Spain¡¯s five-year notes decreased to 36 basis points today, the narrowest spread since April 2010, based on closing-market data.