It has been several years that I have been writing these articles. There are some of you who do read them and on occasion I get a question about the materials. They have generally fallen into two categories: when are you going to write about something I can use (I thought I was!) and when will interest rates go up?

For savers who have been concentrated in fixed income investments and attempting to live off the interest, the past several years have left them wanting. Savers have a had a number of negatives to face with bond and CD investors unable to find sufficient yield with interest rates so low, in part due to quantitative easing.

In recent Congressional testimony, the new chair of the Federal Reserve, Janet Yellen, responded to these concerns, stating, ¡°The rate of return savers can expect really depends on the health of the economy.¡±

In a number of my articles I have attempted, maybe not so successfully, to put the case that the economy is slowly recovering and growing. But you do not have to take my word of it.

Bloomberg periodically compiles a survey of economists¡¯ expectations. Their most recent survey of 82 economists was released in early February. When asked what the percentage chance of a recession in the next 12 months is, the median estimate was 10 percent. This is not a particularly high probability of the economy slowing. So this must mean the economy will expand, demand for money and credit will increase and this will cause interest rates to move higher? Well, sort of.

These same economists are estimating that gross domestic product (GDP) will grow by 2.2 percent in the first quarter 2014 and 3.1 percent annualized by the fourth quarter. The median estimate for annualized GDP growth for all of 2014 is 2.9 percent and then moving to 3.0 percent in both 2015 and 2016. That is a .1 percent higher than their previous estimate for 2014 and the same for 2015. The median estimate for consumer spending for 2014 is 2.6 percent, flat to the previous estimate, climbing to 2.9 percent for both 2015 and 2016.

Could inflation measures provide some clue of rising rates? Not so much. The annualized PCE (personal consumption expenditures) price index attempts to measure the average increase in prices for all domestic personal consumption. It¡¯s year-over-year percentage change for 2014 was estimated to be 1.3 percent, down .2 percent from the previous survey. Estimates for 2015 and 2016 were unchanged at 1.8 percent and 2.0 percent. The core PCE index for 2014 was estimated to increase by 1.4 percent, then 1.8 percent and 1.9 percent for the following two years. As a Federal Reserve-favored measurement of inflation, these numbers are closely analyzed. The Fed has previously set a target of 2.0 ¨C 2.5 percent annualized inflation rate before hiking short-term interest rates, so the survey points to no change until 2016 at the earliest. Another inflation measure, the consumer price index, produces a similar conclusion, a 1.6 percent annualized increase for all of 2014, 2.0 percent for 2015 and 2.2 percent for 2016.

In recent comments, the new Fed chair has signaled the Fed is moving away from a numerical threshold linking an increase in interest rates to the level of unemployment. In recent months, the Fed has made it clear that its withdrawal from a policy of monetary accommodation was going to be very slow. This has steered expectations of hikes in rates to a more modest level.

These forecasts and estimates point to a moderately expanding economy with inflation well contained. This does not portend a rapid increase in interest rates over the next three years but rather a gradual movement to higher rates. Should economic growth proceed at a slower pace, rates will remain low for a longer period of time. If growth should surprise on the upside, then the pace of rate increases could accelerate.

David Helscher is a senior vice president and trust officer with Clinton National Bank.