Germany¡¯s powerful constitutional court has ruled in favour of the one of the European Central Bank¡¯s most important tools to fight financial crises, in a caveated judgment that will provide significant relief to jittery markets just two days before Britain¡¯s EU referendum.

The landmark bond-buying programme ¨C known as Outright Monetary Transactions ¨C was launched at the height of the eurozone¡¯s debt crisis in 2012 and despite having never been used, is widely credited with bringing the currency area back from the brink of collapse, write Mehreen Khan & Claire Jones.

In a final, nuanced ruling issued on Tuesday, the Karlsruhe-based court said should the scope of OMT be limited and other conditions for purchases met, the scheme would ¡°not currently impair the Bundestag¡¯s overall budgetary responsibility¡± or ¡°¡®manifestly¡¯ exceed the competences attributed to the European Central Bank¡±.

After four years of judicial battles, the decision now clears the last remaining stumbling block to the deployment of the policy, under which the central bank can buy bonds of distressed member states.

At the crux of the programme is a pledge to buy short-term government debt to counteract any sharp rise in borrowing costs for debtor states.

A group of more than 37,000 German academics, businessmen and politicians had objected to the scheme, arguing it violated German federal law through the illegal monetary financing of eurozone governments.

But ahead of the German decision, the European Court of Justice ruled in June last year that OMT was in accordance with EU treaty law.

In line with that decision, the German court said should all six of the conditions laid out by the ECJ be met, OMT would not constitute an ¡°ultra vires act¡± in breach of German federal law.

These include making sure the volume of any bond buying is ¡°limited from the outset¡±, ¡°purchases are not announced¡± and the ECB only holds securities until maturity in ¡°exceptional cases¡±.

A negative judgement could have seriously curbed the German Bundesbank¡¯s role in OMT and spooked financial markets ahead of the UK¡¯s increasingly tight EU referendum.

The court¡¯s ruling said: ¡°If interpreted in accordance with the Court of Justice¡¯s judgment, the OMT programme does not present a constitutionally relevant threat to the Bundestag¡¯s right to decide on the budget.¡±

¡°Therefore, it can currently also not be established that implementation of the OMT programme would pose a threat to the overall budgetary responsibility.¡±

The unused OMT has since been overtaken by the ECB¡¯s quantitative easing measures, in which the central bank is purchasing government, corporate and asset-backed bonds across all member states in a bid to revive growth and inflation in the bloc.

But these stimulus measures, launched in March last year, have also met legal challenge with four current outstanding cases against the QE scheme.

The federal court¡¯s OMT ruling also hinted at continued tensions between its interpretation of the central bank¡¯s actions and that held by the supranational ECJ.

The German judges said the Luxembourg-based ECJ had ¡°provided no answer¡± to the question of the ECB¡¯s independence which it argues has led to ¡°a noticeable reduction in the level of democratic legitimation of its actions¡±.

However, it did not deem these objections sufficient to reject the ECB¡¯s measures.

¡°The German Court¡¯s ruling had the potential to shake the European Union or at least the monetary union to its very foundations¡±, said Carsten Brzeski at ING.