Recovery is under way in the world¡¯s advanced economies, underpinned by supportive financial conditions and reduced drag from budgetary tightening, but activity in the major emerging markets is mixed, according to the OECD¡¯s latest Interim Economic Assessment.

The Paris-based think-tank for 34 mainly developed country governments says taht the recovery is advancing well in the United States and the United Kingdom, but proceeding more unevenly in Japan and still lagging behind in the Eurozone. A series of one-off factors ¨C severe winter weather in North America and anticipation of an April 1st rise in Japanese consumption tax ¨C have led to an uneven pace of growth.

Some major emerging economies continue growing at a fast pace, including China, but others have lost momentum. Tighter financial conditions are compounding the growth slowdown in emerging economies.

The OECD projects that the US will grow at an annualised rate of 3.1% in the second quarter of 2014, after first quarter activity was affected adversely by exceptionally cold weather. Extreme weather also impacted Canada, which is expected to experience similarly uneven growth in the first quarter, followed by a bounce back in the second quarter that should push the growth rate up to 2.4%.

In Japan, planned fiscal consolidation is projected to cut into near-term growth. Implementation of a higher consumption tax rate is expected to result in a surge in activity in the current quarter, as consumers bring forward purchases, pushing growth up to an annualised rate of 4.8%. This will be counterbalanced by a contraction of activity in the second quarter before a more normal pattern of recovery gets back on track.

The UK is projected to grow at annualised rates above 3% in the first and second quarters, but the Eurozone¡¯s growth rate - while improving - still lags that of other advanced economies.

Wide disparities are still seen in Europe, where the three largest economies (Germany, France and Italy) will grow at a combined weighted average of 1.9% rate in the first quarter and a 1.4% pace in the second. Germany is forecast to grow by about 3.7% annualised in the first quarter and 2.5% in the second quarter, while the French economy¡¯s annualised growth rate will hover around 1% and Italy¡¯s will remain below 1% for each of the first two quarters.

The OECD says short-term indicators signal that activity is regaining strength, and exports are expected to be the main source of growth in the years ahead, notwithstanding the expiry of some drug patents. High debts continue to constrain households¡¯ and firms¡¯ spending, although the housing market is showing the first signs of stabilisation. Inflationary pressures are expected to remain weak.

The think-tank says rising non-performing loans are weakening banks and SMEs continue to experience difficulties in accessing credit. Lending conditions remain among the tightest in Europe. The strategy set out by the Central Bank of Ireland, including quarterly quantitative targets for dealing with mortgage arrears, should be fully implemented to foster on-going balance sheet adjustments and improve credit supply.

The export-led recovery is expected to gather strength in 2014 and 2015 in line with the projected pick-up in Europe. Domestic demand will gradually recover as the labour market improves.

GDP is expected to rose 1.9% in 2014 and 2.2% in 2015.