Presiding Officer, if you want me to extend my speech on the Scottish Government¡¯s refreshed international framework and policy statement, you just need to indicate to me that that is the case.

The Scottish Government continues to have a strong and consistent commitment to international engagement. Internationalisation sits at the heart of Scotland¡¯s economic strategy, alongside innovation, investing in our people and inclusion.

Scotland has a strong track record of international collaboration. We remain the second most attractive for foreign investors to the United Kingdom after London and, in 2017, visitors voted Scotland the world¡¯s most beautiful country. In addition, the Edinburgh international festival goes from strength to strength as a global forum for cultural exchange.

Last year, we joined the Under2 Coalition to express our determination as good global citizens to play our part in shared challenges and to strive to limit global warming to 2¡ãC.

We are alive to the constant need to build on and reinforce those strengths. As a result, we have recently refreshed ¡°Scotland¡¯s International Framework¡± and ¡°Scotland¡¯s International Policy Statement¡±. Those documents set out how our international work supports this Government¡¯s central purpose of creating a more successful country, with opportunities for all to flourish through increasing sustainable economic growth.

The first objective is to strengthen our external relationships under networks. Our international work is founded on partnerships with our people, our institutions and our partners inside and outside Scotland.

Our second objective focuses on building our reputation and international attractiveness. That includes strengthening and enhancing Scotland¡¯s reputation, boosting our trade and investment and striving to be a leader in areas such as climate change and equality.

The third objective is to enhance our global outlook, embedding internationalisation in everything that we do and equipping the people of Scotland to capitalise on the vast number of global opportunities.

The fourth objective is to encourage engagement with the European Union and we will strive to protect Scotland¡¯s place in Europe.

Scotland has experienced significant social and economic change over the decades since we launched our international framework, but no single event has had a greater impact than the result of the UK¡¯s European Union referendum. That now threatens to redefine Scotland¡¯s place in Europe and the world, affecting our ability to play a full and constructive part in international affairs, so the international policy statement and underpinning framework are more essential than ever to communicate Scotland¡¯s open and welcoming approach.

Yesterday, the First Minister launched the document ¡°Scotland¡¯s Place in Europe: People, Jobs and Investment¡±. It presents the latest analysis by the Scottish Government of the implications for Scotland¡¯s economy and society if the UK exits the European Union. That analysis is clear: leaving the EU could result in a hit of up to 8.5 per cent of gross domestic product.

EU nationals remain key to our international competitiveness, and the free movement of persons within the single market is helping Scotland to address the substantial demographic challenges that we face. All outcomes short of full EU membership will cause some damage to Scotland¡¯s economic, social and environmental interests, and a Brexit that results in the UK being outside the European single market and customs union will have the most damaging consequences for Scotland. We do not think that that is acceptable and neither, we believe, do the Scottish people. Whatever the outcome, I agree with the Labour amendment that we need a ¡°lasting progressive partnership¡±.

I will focus now on our wider international priorities. As Scotland¡¯s ambitions continue to grow, so does the importance of our country¡¯s international reputation and the need to work with others to contribute to the success of the global community. To enhance Scotland¡¯s reputation as a place to work, live, invest, study and visit, the Scottish Government and its key partners are working together to offer a coherent and compelling picture of modern Scotland to the world. We will continue to focus on our priority countries¡ªthe United States, Canada, China, India and Pakistan¡ªand to increase our engagement with Japan.

Last month, the Deputy First Minister visited India, accompanied by 11 principals and vice-principals from Scottish universities and one college, to explore academic collaboration and investment from India into Scotland. India celebrated 70 years of independence in 2017¡ªit was an important year for India. The Deputy First Minister addressed more than 2,000 members of Scotland¡¯s Indian community at Murrayfield for the independence day celebrations in August, as well as hosting key international investors to boost the partnership between Scotland and India. During the UK-India year of cultural exchange, we also saw no fewer than 13 Scotland-India collaborations taking place in India and across Scotland.

In addition to our five priority countries, our desire to strengthen engagement with Japan is a manifesto and programme for government commitment. Since 2009, there have been six Scottish ministerial visits to Japan, the last being my visit in February 2017. Since that visit we have seen another very busy and successful period of collaboration between Japan and Scotland, especially in terms of increased trade, investment and cultural links.

Recent successes in Japan include the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Nippon Foundation and Scottish Enterprise in 2017, in which each party agreed to up to $10 million of investment over five years for a research and development programme targeting the development of subsea technologies. My meetings with Nippon while visiting Japan helped to play a key role in taking that forward. There will be many opportunities to recognise and encourage stronger engagement with Japan, particularly over the coming years as we look forward to the rugby world cup next year and the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

Closer to home, ¡°All Points North: The Scottish Government¡¯s Nordic Baltic Policy Statement¡± was published in September 2017. That refreshed policy document reaffirms our commitment to strengthening our links in that region, promoting collaboration and policy exchange. Since the statement was launched in 2014, we have seen strong examples of that: the co-operation with the First Minister¡¯s baby box initiative from Finland, our tourism memorandum of understanding with Iceland and our on-going engagement with Norway on fisheries science and negotiations. Looking ahead, we will continue to promote the aims and objectives of the policy statement through our support for the Nordic horizons group, our on-going ministerial engagements and opportunities for our policy makers to learn and exchange ideas with policy makers in that region.

In November 2017, at the request of the Arctic circle organisation and its chair, lafur Ragnar Gr¨ªmsson, the former President of Iceland, we hosted in Edinburgh an Arctic circle forum to examine the theme of ¡°Scotland and the New North¡±. That was the first time that an Arctic circle forum had been held in the UK, and it was attended by more than 300 delegates. Partnerships across the Arctic region will be central in the coming decades, to address shared environmental, demographic and economic challenges and opportunities. We are proud to be playing a leading role and have committed to developing an Arctic strategy for Scotland.

One of our long-standing engagements and relationships is that with China. Only recently, I represented Scotland in London as part of the UK¡¯s people-to-people dialogue and exchange with the Chinese Government. Through our achievements to date, we have been demonstrating that our reach is wide and that we have the ability to make a positive contribution as a good global citizen, which includes just trade. On that subject, I look forward to hearing from the Greens on their amendment.

It was almost exactly a year ago that members debated the Scottish Government¡¯s dynamic new international development strategy of global citizenship, which brings greater focus and direction to our international development work. We have made good progress in implementing that strategy and have new development programmes in Zambia and Rwanda, a new Malawi funding round and expansion of our successful Scottish scholarship scheme for women and children in Pakistan.

We have placed great importance on Scotland being a good global citizen and playing our part in tackling global challenges as part of our wider engagement with the international community. That includes providing training with the United Nations special envoy for Syria¡¯s advisory group, and we have been supporting 50 women in that area. We are also deeply aware of the importance of the contribution of the human rights-based approach to all forms of our engagement and our commitment to Scotland¡¯s values and practice in respect of human rights, common dignity and humanity. I will be interested to hear from the Liberal Democrats about their stress on the importance of that.

I am delighted to present the Government¡¯s new international policy framework and priorities to the Parliament. Scotland will continue to seek opportunities across all policy areas for international collaboration to build on our global reputation and improve the lives of everyone who lives, works, visits or studies in Scotland.

That the Parliament notes the new International Framework and International Policy Statement published on 8 December 2017 and the four overarching objectives that it contains; supports the Scottish Government working with business, higher education, civic Scotland and the UK Government in achieving those objectives; agrees that maintaining an international perspective remains vital to the continued prosperity of Scotland¡¯s economy, society and people; commends the efforts of those building partnerships to advance Scotland¡¯s role as a good global citizen, and shares the importance of a human rights-based approach in doing so.