Gold prices today are also greatly affected by the demand for Gold in jewelry. Jewelry made up about 46 percent of Gold demand worldwide Q1 2017 ¨C up from Q1 2016. This demand for Gold is due to Gold being seen as an enduring gift for weddings, festivals and other special events, and typically results in a strong 1 oz Gold price. In Q1 2016, when Gold jewelry demand hit a seven-year low, it was still at 45% of the total Gold demand. In addition, determining what is the current price of Gold is affected by industrial demand, like the manufacture of medical devices, such as stents, and electronics, such as GPS units. Finally, the Gold coin price and Gold bar price are affected by how much Gold is available, which was at 186,700 tons of above-ground stock at the end of Q1 2017.

What is the lowest price of Gold per ounce in the past 5 years?

When you look at the Gold prices historical chart, you will see the historical Gold prices low point in the past five years occurred Dec. 2, 2015 at 12:30 p.m. (CT) when the spot price of Gold was at $1,057.10 USD per troy ounce. You can check out the price trends of Silver, Platinum and Palladium, too.

What is the highest price of Gold per ounce in the past 5 years?

The price of Gold chart shows the highest Gold ounce price was on Aug. 2, 2016 at 12:30 p.m. (CT), when Gold prices per ounce were $1,368.30 USD. You can check out the price trends of Silver, Platinum and Palladium, too.

What is the lowest ounce of Gold price in the past 10 years?

The lowest 1 oz Gold price in the past 10 years per the Gold price chart happened on Nov. 10, 2008 at 12:30 p.m. (CT). Gold prices per ounce were $732.96 USD. You can check out the price trends of Silver, Platinum and Palladium, too.

What is the highest Gold price in the past 10 years?

In the past 10 years, the highest spot price Gold sold for was $1,864.12 USD per troy ounce. The price of Gold hit this high on Sept. 9, 2011, at 12:30 p.m. (CT). You can check out the price trends of Silver, Platinum and Palladium, too.

When I see the spot price of Gold, is that in U.S. currency?

APMEX is here to help answer all of your buying questions, even about currency! The Gold spot price quotes on APMEX.com are in U.S. dollars (USD). The USD Gold spot prices are converted to local currency when needed.

Is the U.S. Gold price the same no matter where I live?

No matter where you are in the world, the spot Gold price now is the same at any given moment. If the price of Gold was not the same, the opportunity for arbitrage would exist. This means you could simultaneously buy and sell Gold in different markets to take advantage of the current Gold price or premium differentials. Gold is traded in U.S. dollars so the price per ounce of Gold is simply converted to the local currency to reflect one troy ounce of Gold price. This is the basis for Gold bullion such as Gold American Eagles and Gold American Buffalos, as well as collectible vintage coins that have high numismatic Gold value.

Where can I see a Gold spot price calculator?

APMEX displays the spot Gold price per gram, per ounce and per kilo so that you can easily calculate the value of your Gold on-hand. Any calculator is a Gold calculator when you have up-to-the-moment Gold prices at your fingertips.

What are gold spot prices in the USA?

APMEX provides the price of Gold in the USA as a real-time chart. APMEX also provides an interactive USA Gold price chart for your research needs. A live Gold prices historical chart in U.S. dollars makes it easy to plan your purchases to your advantage. You can see the spot Gold price in terms of oz, gram and kilo.

I've heard that Gold trades 24/7. Is that true? Is there a closing price daily?

Gold trading almost never stops. Find the Gold price for today at almost any time, any place in the world. This distinguishes Gold from stocks, which have official trading hours and closing prices. There are no close-of-business Gold prices, although some firms capture a "closing Gold price." These companies typically either use the fixing price of Gold, reflecting the price at which buy and sell orders from the firms' customers are balanced, or they use a data vendor¡¯s closing Gold price, which is often a snapshot of Gold spot prices at a specific time each day. Trading goes from 6 p.m. (ET) to 5:15 p.m. (ET), Sunday to Friday, with markets closing for 45 minutes on weekdays.

What is a premium Gold bar price and Gold coin price, and why do I have to pay it?

You will see the Gold price spot today per ounce and wonder why you have to pay a premium Gold price. The premium current Gold pricing reflects the spot price plus the costs of fabrication, distribution and a minimal dealer fee. The Gold coin price can also include numismatic or collectible Gold value. Any numismatic value can considerably add to the Gold price per gram or ounce. The rarer the coin, the higher the Gold coin values and therefore the higher the premium price. Of course, the good news is the value of Gold coins can also go up more dramatically when you sell later. Gold coin price premiums include considerations for scarcity, quality, demand and intangible factors like appeal because of artistic or historic Gold coin value. Many investors consider Gold bullion the best investment because bullion has a lower premium without numismatic value. Favorite Gold bullion selections include:

What does numismatic value mean when you are looking at the Gold ounce price premium?

When you begin investing in Gold, you must determine if you want Gold only for its raw Gold value or if you want to also collect Gold coins and other products that have a numismatic value. Numismatic is just a fancy term for the collectible aspect of coins, paper currency, medals or related bullion objects. Gold coin prices are higher if the coin has a numismatic value. When you look at the Gold prices chart, you will find the spot Gold price, which is the base price. To that spot price for Gold, add costs for fabrication, distribution, a nominal dealer markup and numismatic value, which combine to give you the premium Gold price you pay.

Why can't I buy at the Gold spot price? Is the dealer making a lot of money on my purchase?

You can't buy at the spot price of Gold by the ounce because the spot price does not include the costs of fabrication, distribution, a small dealer markup and any numismatic or collector Gold value added for highly sought-after Gold coins. The Gold bar value is typically very easy to determine because it is based on the spot Gold price you will find on a Gold price history chart, plus fabrication, distribution and a small dealer markup.

But Gold coin values are harder to estimate because they rely on where the coins were minted, the quantity of coins minted, the current coin condition, the desirability of the coins and more. As a result for dealers, the premium for Gold coin prices, that is, the price on top of the Gold spot price, is also more than premium prices for Gold bars, and Gold coin values can be significantly higher for highly sought-after Gold coins.

Sovereign Gold bullion coins are manufactured by governments around the world and Gold coin values when in circulation are simply the face values stamped on these coins. These popular coins also often have numismatic value, or collector Gold value, which means the Gold price exceeds the face value. In the U.S., no Gold coins have been in legal circulation since 1933 when President Roosevelt prohibited their circulation as currency. Vintage sovereign coins like American Saint-Gaudens Gold coins have far greater value than the basic bar of Gold value. Other popular sovereign coins that have a higher premium price over the spot Gold price per troy ounce include Canadian Maple Leaf Coins, South African Krugerrands and Austrian Philharmonics.

How do I compare the current price of Gold?

When you compare the price of Gold, make sure you are comparing troy ounces to troy ounces. Gold is typically sold in troy ounces (which weigh about one-tenth more than regular ounces), but sometimes you will see the Gold price per gram or other Gold price measurements. Make sure you know the rate you are looking at is the Gold price in troy ounces. In addition, the current Gold price for a coin can be higher than the current price of Gold bullion, including:

That is because the price you pay for a Gold item takes into consideration more than the raw value of Gold. In addition to the 1 oz Gold coin value, there is often a numismatic value, or collectibility premium, for a higher current price of Gold per ounce for coins and higher historical Gold prices for collectible Gold coins.

What is the Gold price quoting exactly?

When looking at Gold prices, make sure you understand what is being quoted. Most of the time, Gold value is quoted in troy ounces in U.S. dollars (USD). On occasion, you will discover some websites list Gold prices per gram or kilo. Check out the various 1 oz troy coins offered at APMEX, like the American Gold Eagle coins, South African Gold Krugerrands or the Austrian Philharmonic coins. If you see the price of Gold listed in grams and kilo, it is calculated based on the troy ounce metric.

Is it worth it to buy a gram of Gold?

Any purchase of Gold is worth it because there is a large store of value associated with the Precious Metal. A gram of Gold is a good way to get started investing in Gold because of its affordable price point. While a gram of Gold is affordable, there are plentiful options available. Some of the gram Gold bullion available include APMEX-branded Gold bars and Gold bars produced by the Valcambi Mint. Gold has tremendous value and it provides a unique dimension to any investment portfolio.

What is the difference between an ounce and a troy ounce when looking at a price of Spot Gold chart?

The ounces Americans know in everyday life are actually called avoirdupois ounces. The Gold price per ounce is measured in troy ounces, which are equal to 1.09711 avoirdupois ounces. A pound of Gold is 12 troy ounces. This is also true of other Precious Metals, including Silver, Platinum and Palladium.

The Gram of Gold: What I should Know about Measurement

Many times, the price of Gold is listed in troy ounces. When you see the price of Gold per gram labeled, it is the equivalent to 31.1 grams per troy ounce, not the standard ounce. Grams are convenient units of pricing if you are starting off investing in Gold.

How many Grams are in an ounce of Gold?

One troy ounce equals 31.1035 grams or 480 grains. With these equivalences, you can easily determine the value of Gold. It is important to understand the weight and value of the Gold you are buying online. Do not confuse ounces with troy ounces as the price you see as associated with Precious Metals is troy ounces.

What are the spot prices of Gold and Silver?

APMEX is a great resource for those who need up-to-the-moment Gold price and Silver prices. We have both live spot prices and historical Gold and Silver prices readily available on our simple interactive graphs. Gold spot prices are important to know because you want the most accurate information when making a purchase.

How much is an ounce of Gold?

The price of Gold fluctuates daily based on the market price. APMEX has live Gold spot price charts to give you the up-to-the-minute information you need to optimize your buying power. An ounce of Gold is sold at market price, or spot, plus a small premium depending on the Gold product you select. To buy an ounce of Gold at the optimum price for you, watch the real-time and interactive Gold price chart at APMEX.

What is the price of Gold per gram?

APMEX displays the spot Gold prices per ounce but these can easily be calculated into the Gold price per gram, per ounce and per kilo so you are always making your purchasing decisions with precise information and exact numbers. How much is a gram of Gold, you ask? A gram is one one-thousandth of a kilogram. APMEX's Gold prices chart provides the prices for Gold by the kilo, ounce and Gold gram.

What are Example Ounce Gold prices today?

What are Example kilo Gold prices today?

Why are Gold prices per ounce so high? What determines the price of Gold per ounce?

When determining what is the price of Gold, markets take into account the bedrock of capitalism: supply and demand. Relative to other metals like aluminum or iron, Gold is rarer to find, which means Gold prices today are higher than those easier-to-find metals. In contrast, about 150 years ago, aluminum prices were higher than Gold prices because it was so hard to extract aluminum from raw source materials. While it is rarer, Gold is also in high demand for jewelry, industrial uses, like the manufacture of medical devices, and electronics such as GPS units. These personal, commercial and economic uses all increase Gold prices per ounce.

How is the Gold spot price determined?

While Gold is traded as a commodity on many exchanges around the globe, the COMEX (Commodity Exchange, Inc.) is the most important exchange that sets the spot price of Gold. To calculate the spot Gold price, the data from the front month futures contract traded on the COMEX is used. Only when there is little to no volume on the front month contract, the next delivery month with the most volume is used to calculate the spot price of Gold.

Gold futures are a way to make a sale or purchase agreement at the current price, to be settled at a later date. Gold futures allow an investor to speculate as to whether the prices of Gold will rise or fall from a given day¡¯s price. Looking at historic Gold prices, or making Gold price predictions can help you with purchasing power. Prices are determined by many factors including supply and demand, as well as political activity.

What is the Gold spot price?

APMEX is a great resource for those who need an up-to-the-moment Gold spot price. APMEX displays the live Gold spot price as well as historical Gold prices on our simple interactive graphs. Make an informed decision on your purchase by looking at the spot prices of all our metals.

Why does the price for Gold change? It seems sort of volatile.

Yes, there are volatile times where the Gold spot price quickly shifts, but during quiet periods, the spot price of Gold will be relatively stable. Supply and demand can affect the volatility, as can geopolitical and economic woes. Check the chart of Gold prices history to see how relatively stable Gold has been at different times throughout its history. The price of Gold coins, Gold bars and other Gold products has been so historically stable many consider it a safe-haven asset. Some of the favorite bullion coins with investors include American Gold Eagle coins and Gold Buffalo coins, as well as Austrian Philharmonic coins and Canadian Maple Leaf coins.

The Gold rate, or price of Gold, fluctuates daily. APMEX has an excellent resource in its Gold price chart, which shows both the current and historical Gold rate, or price of Gold.

What is the Current Bid Gold price Today?

The Bid Gold price for today in USA per ounce is the current highest market offer to sell to a dealer. Consumers can expect to receive the bid price when selling Gold to a dealer.

What is the Ask Gold price?

The Ask current Gold price per ounce is the current minimum price for a dealer to sell in the market. Dealers will offer to sell Gold to you for the ask price.

What does the Spread mean for the Gold price per ounce today?

The Spread, or the bid-ask spread, is the difference between the Ask Gold price per troy ounce and the Buy Gold price per oz today and represents the dealer¡¯s profit. Dealers will offer to sell Gold to you for the ask price, and when you decide to sell Gold back, the dealer will pay the bid price.

Why are Silver and Gold prices so different?

Silver and Gold prices are so different in large part due to perception and demand. It is less about their rarity though there is some debate about whether Silver is now rarer than Gold. Either way, we see the 1 oz Gold price is about 70 times more than Silver prices. Part of the reason for the difference may be that Gold is harder to mine because Gold is often alloyed with other metals, requiring a purification process. The Gold price and Silver price also is reliant on demand, which has no signs of waning, especially for Gold bullion such as:

Gold is also used in a multitude of industrial products, including space-age equipment. In addition, Gold-Silver prices reflect that both central banks and individual investors buy more Gold. In many ways, the demand is all about perception, as well as history. Gold and Silver prices throughout time have been at odds. As early as 6,000 years ago, Gold was used as decoration and was introduced in ancient times as coins. Thus, we perceive Gold as valuable because civilizations before us also saw Gold's value. These are just some of the reasons Silver and Gold price is so different.

What is the current Gold and Silver price?

APMEX offers both live Gold & Silver price quotes as well as easy-to-read historical charts recording the daily Gold and Silver price charts. Current prices are updated in real time.

Can I Buy a Coin or Bar at the Gold Price Today?

It is rare that you can buy a Gold coin or Gold bar at spot. There are premiums associated with Gold bullion, which often include dealer fees. Regardless of what the Gold price today is, you can plan on spending over spot price for you bullion. At APMEX, Gold bullion is priced competitively and they offer several options from which to choose.

Investing at the current price of Gold per ounce

What is the current spot Gold price today?

APMEX provides live spot Gold prices in real time. APMEX also provides an interactive graph for your research needs. It is as easy to see the spot Gold price from a month or year ago as it is to see the price today.

Why should I invest in Gold when Gold prices today seem so high?

Investing in Gold is a good way to balance out your portfolio to save for retirement or to preserve wealth. Live Gold prices are often going in the opposite direction of other investments like stocks and bonds. The price of Gold often retains its value well during economic downturns, with the price of spot Gold often increasing as the value of the U.S. dollar declines, also referred to as the Gold Index. In addition, the historical value of Gold has typically been stable during inflationary times. An ounce of Gold is an ounce of Gold anywhere in the world ¨C with the same intrinsic value, the same Gold prices per ounce in U.S. dollars. This makes Gold easy to trade. And finally, it's easy to pass along tangible wealth to future generations who appreciate the value of Gold. Even though the current price of Gold seems high, investors know Gold prices today will hold their value tomorrow.

What are Gold Price rates in the USA?

Gold rates, or the price of Gold, fluctuates daily. APMEX has an excellent resource in its Gold price chart, which shows both the current and historical Gold rates, or price of Gold.

What is the difference between Gold rates and Gold prices?

Gold rates and Gold prices are two terms used interchangeably. The Gold rate and price are one and the same.

Where is the best place to buy Gold online?

Before you make a purchase, it is always best to first understand where to buy from. First and foremost, buy from reputable Precious Metal dealers only. Once you have chosen your metal(s), be sure to check for any hidden fees. Finally, be sure to confirm the order prior to placing the order. Click to get further help on how to buy Gold & Silver.

How do I safely buy Gold for retirement?

No investment is completely safe. With today's Gold price, many think Gold can be a good addition to your portfolio, depending on your goals. Typically investors consider Gold prices in historical terms when they hold an asset like physical Gold for 3-5 years or more. These investors know Gold prices typically go up as other investments like stocks and bonds, and even U.S. currency, falter. That is why many see Gold as a typically stable investment during economic downturns, when the Gold price per oz can skyrocket. Many investors who look at the price of Gold per ounce over time use dollar cost averaging, dividing the total sum to be invested into equal amounts invested at regular intervals. This conservative method of buying Gold allows flexibility as the market shifts.

When do I invest in Gold coins and when do I invest in Gold bars?

There is a big difference in the current Gold price for some of these. What type of Gold you invest in depends on your end-game. Some people love the simplicity of the bar of Gold value with minimal markup from the spot Gold price, making it ideal for investing. Others look at Gold coin prices, which can be much higher Gold prices because of the collectibility factor, and think the price is worth it. Why? Because the Gold coin price represents more than just monetary value. Gold coin prices reflect the currencies as historical and design masterpieces to hold in your hands and proudly display. In contrast, the Gold bar price reflects its utilitarian mission as an investment tool, although some Gold bars display beautiful designs, upping their numismatic value. Many people also like to collect both for a mix of coin and bar of Gold value. In addition, you can also collect Gold jewelry, made with bars and coins like the Gold American Eagles or South African Gold Krugerrands, or you can collect Gold rounds, which have no face value but often have gorgeous designs and numismatic value.

What is the price of Gold?

APMEX is a great resource for those who need up-to-the-moment Gold and Silver prices. We have both the live spot price and historical Gold and Silver prices readily available on our simple interactive graphs. A Gold coin's price is determined by its content, condition and rarity. Of course, a Gold coin's' price is also influenced by the spot price of Gold on a given day.

How do I safely store my Gold investments?

We offer storage help with Citadel Global Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of APMEX that provides maximum security. That is something any investor wants after paying the current Gold bullion price. World security leader Brink's manages the facility for the best in security to protect the value of Gold in your coin collection. The price to use this facility is very affordable ¨C an important factor after determining what the price of your Gold investment is. Store Gold bars and Gold coins to keep them safe.

Make the most of Gold values with Precious Metals IRAs, which are Self-Directed IRAs. Just like with regular IRAs, any profits on your Gold investment sales can be tax deferred as long as the proceeds are kept with your reinvestment custodian or transferred to another IRA account. Gold must be at least .995 fine to place the Precious Metal in the IRA. When you decide to place the Precious Metal in the IRA, you have a way to further diversify your portfolio and hedge against economic downturn.

Do I have to pay taxes on my Gold coin investments?

For some states, the Gold bar and Gold coin price will include sales taxes when you check out. Online, you typically only pay sales tax on the current price of Gold per ounce if you live in the state of the seller and that state collects tax. APMEX does not collect any tax. You should consult your tax advisor for specific taxation advice in your jurisdiction. State taxes may be applicable.

Does the government monitor Gold sales that are over $10,000?

Unlike cash transactions, purchases of Gold of more than $10,000 are not reported. After determining what is the price of Gold today and buying Gold, you don't have to worry about your purchases being tracked by the government.

A Gold coin's price is determined by its content, condition and rarity. Of course, a Gold coin's price is also influenced by the spot price of Gold on a given day. It is also important to note that Gold coins do come in several sizes including 1 gram, 2 gram, 5 oz and 1 kilo, to name a few.