CitiMortgage is the home loan division of Citigroup, Inc., an international banking institution. Operating under the brand name Citi, Citigroup is the world¡¯s largest financial services corporation, with 16,000 offices and local branches in 140 countries serving 200 million customers.

Citi traces its history to the City Bank of New York, founded in 1812; the name Citibank was adopted in 1976. The company offers a broad range of financial services, including consumer banking and finance, mortgage lending, wealth management and brokerage services, insurance, private banking and institutional finance. It is the nation¡¯s #1 online banker, with 15 million customers using the service.

The company¡¯s brands include Citibank, the consumer banking arm; One Main Financial for consumer loans; CitiInsurance, dealing primarily in life insurance and retirement financial issues; CitiCards, the credit card division; Primerica, a consumer financial management and marketing division; Citi Capital Advisors and Citi Alternative Investments , dealing in a variety of investment products; and others addressing the needs of institutions, corporations and wealthy individuals.

One Main Financial was known as CitiFinancial until a name change in 2011; it is still part of Citigroup.

CitiMortgage offers home loan products for both home purchases and refinancing an existing mortgage. These products include fixed-rate loans with terms ranging from 10-40 years and adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) with initial rate periods ranging from six months to 10 years.

The company posts updated mortgage rate information on its web site, with current rates for 30-year and 15-year fixed-rate mortgages for borrowers with good credit and a 25 percent down payment.

CitiMortgage is also an authorized lender for FHA and VA loans.

Homeowners with a Citi mortgage who are in need of a loan modification or other foreclosure.

Refinance mortgage rates and programs are similar to those offered for home purchase mortgages. In addition, borrowers may apply to refinance a home mortgage through the company¡¯s One Main Financial consumer loans division (formerly Citifinancial). In most cases, you do not have to be a current CitiMortgage customer to refinance your mortgage through Citi.

Refinance options include refinancing to a lower interest rate, a shorter loan term to pay your mortgage off sooner or a longer loan term to reduce your monthly payment.

CitiMortgage participates in the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) for homeowners with little or no equity in their home; borrowers may still qualify even if they are underwater on their mortgage (owe more than their home is worth). The program is limited to mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; you must currently be a CitiMortgage customer to obtain a HARP refinance through CitiMortgage.

Home equity loans are offered through Citi¡¯s One Main Financial division. The CitiMortgage division does not offer home equity loans, lines of credit or second mortgages.

One Main Financial offers home equity loans of $10,000 to $125,000 for home improvement, with terms ranging from 15-20 years. Secured and unsecured personal loans of up to $10,000 are available as well.

Mortgage loan modifications for qualified homeowners who are in financial trouble and having difficulty making their payments on a Citi mortgage are handled through Citi¡¯s One Main Financial Division. Arrangements for short sales and deed-in-lieu transactions for homeowners who are unable to remain in their homes are handled through One Main Financial as well. Not all financially at-risk borrowers will be able to qualify for these programs.