It is all change at the Bank of England. The new appointments were formally announced by George Osborne but show the governor, Mark Carney, stamping his authority all over Threadneedle Street.

Before moving on to the winners and losers, it is worth commenting on the rationale behind the need for a deputy governor for markets and banking. Quite simply, the extra work load heaped on the Bank in the aftermath of the financial crisis means that there is a risk of Carney being asked to do too much: monetary policy, strategic oversight of the City, keeping an eye on individual banks and ensuring the financial markets work smoothly and honestly.

The governor remains ultimately responsible for all these tasks, but can now delegate some of the responsibility to four deputies. Ben Broadbent gets monetary policy; the former Treasury mandarin John Cunliffe looks after financial stability; Andrew Bailey takes care of prudential regulation of the banks; Nemat Shafik takes up the new post of deputy governor for markets and banking.

There are two key parts of Shafik's role. Firstly, to ensure that the markets are cleaned up after the scandals involving Libor and foreign exchange traders. The Bank's own involvement in these affairs is currently under scrutiny, and the appointment of a high-profile outsider ¨C Shafik's role at the IMF makes her Britain's most senior official in an international body ¨C shows Carney's concern about the potential damage the scandals are doing to Threadneedle Street's image.

The second, perhaps even more daunting, task for Shafik is to work out a way of unwinding the Bank's quantitative easing programme. This is the initiative that pumped money into the banking system through the purchase of 375bn in government bonds. Buying the bonds has helped suppress long-term interest rates; the task for the new deputy governor is to devise a means of selling them back to the markets without jeopardising economic growth.

Two other things about the new structure are worthy of mention. Broadbent's move from being an external member of the MPC to a full-time Bank official adds to the sense that Goldman Sachs runs the world. Both Carney and Broadbent have worked at Goldmans. Secondly, Shafik's appointment does something to remedy the gender imbalance at the Bank.

As for the personnel changes, Paul Fisher, the executive director for markets, has carried the can for the Libor and forex scandals. He loses his place on the MPC. Spencer Dale, currently chief economist, was a candidate to replace Charlie Bean as deputy governor for monetary policy but lost out to Broadbent. Dale appears to have paid the price for the Bank's less than stellar record for economic forecasting and does a job swap with Andy Haldane, executive director for financial stability.

What do the changes add up to? Clearly, the Bank's organisational structure needed to be updated to take account of the fact that it is no longer simply an institution that does monetary policy. That re-organisation is now in place. All the coming and going means there will be a vacancy for an external member of the MPC. It is unlikely, however, that the public will notice much of a change to monetary policy; although Shafik's views are unknown the balance of hawks and doves remains unchanged.

Finally, the appointment of Shafik is bound to prompt speculation that she will become the Bank's first female governor when Carney's term ends in the summer of 2018.