A pre-production report for the 2003 Saturn Ion identifies problems with the ignition switch, which can unexpectedly shut off, and will eventually lead to a recall of 2.6 million cars including the Chevrolet Cobalt and HHR, Saturn Ion and Sky and the Pontiac G5 and Solstice.

G.M. approves the faulty design of the switch even though the company that made the part, Delphi, tells the automaker the switch does not meet specifications.

G.M. opens an engineering inquiry to examine a complaint that the Cobalt can be ¡°keyed off with knee while driving.¡±

A ¡°brand quality¡± division of G.M. notices a higher level of buybacks of the cars ¡ª under lemon laws or for other reasons ¡ª and urges that the company reopen an investigation into the ignition issue.

By the end of 2007, G.M. learns of four more crashes when the engine was off and the air bag did not deploy.

A N.H.T.S.A. contractor says to regulators that a fatal crash of a Cobalt in Wisconsin was linked to the ignition problem that G.M. had notified dealers about.

In response to a complaint, N.H.T.S.A writes to the driver of a Chevy HHR that stalled: ¡°At this time, there is insufficient evidence to warrant opening a safety defect investigation.¡±

G.M. looks at black box data for 14 crashes and find the ignition was recorded in the ¡°accessory¡± position for half.

Hasaya Chansuthus dies after crashing her 2006 Cobalt in Tennessee. The airbags do not deploy. Her family files a lawsuit against G.M. the next month.

Jennifer Brooke Melton is killed in a crash in Georgia after her engine shuts off. The airbags do not deploy. Her family files a lawsuit against G.M.

The Chansuthus family settles its lawsuit against G.M. Even though Ms. Chansuthus¡¯s blood alcohol level was more than twice the legal limit, the company pays the family an undisclosed amount.

Within G.M., a review of records ¡°by those involved in the investigation¡± is conducted to find design changes in the switch that would cause the ignition problem.

G.M. engineers conduct a study of the cars using the ¡°Red X¡± and ¡°design for Six Sigma¡± problem-solving methodology, but these produce inconclusive results.

After dialogue with their supplier, Delphi, G.M. gets records that show changes had been made in ignition switches late in 2006 that would have increased the switch¡¯s torque performance.

G.M. announces a second type of repair on the recalled cars because some vehicles won¡¯t shut off even after the key is removed.

A Senate panel holds a hearing on the safety regulators. David Friedman, acting administrator of N.H.T.S.A., is called to testify.