Mark Carney¡¯s drive for change at the Bank of England takes another step forward on Monday as the deadline passes for applications to become the next deputy governor of the central bank and he can begin to select an ally for his cause.

Although the post is formally a crown appointment organised by the Treasury, aides to George Osborne say the new governor will be instrumental in making the choice and ministers want Mr Carney to be happy with the selection.

The successor to Paul Tucker, who was unsuccessful in getting the top job at the BoE, will have responsibility for the bank¡¯s role in ensuring financial stability, both in the UK and internationally. With Mr Carney planning to stay only five years as governor, the successful candidate would automatically be a frontrunner to take over as governor in 2018.

For this plum job, carrying a salary of 260,000, interest is likely to be high, but few will have the requisite qualifications. The job advertisement specifies someone working at a very senior level in central banking, in a finance ministry or a major bank or financial institution, but sources in the Treasury say that Mr Carney places great value on significant experience in international financial negotiations.

The role will involve representing Britain in cross-border discussions over financial regulations at the European Commission, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the Financial Stability Board, which Mr Carney chairs.

The job specification demands ¡°undisputed integrity and standing¡±, the candidate must be ¡°be credible on both micro- and macroeconomic issues domestically and internationally¡± and have ¡°acute political sensitivity and awareness¡±. It has been noted inside the Bank of England that the new governor himself is the most qualified for the job, so the successful candidate is likely to be someone cast in his own image.

For Mr Carney, who has publicly stressed the need to ¡°be able to delegate to a very able team of senior executives¡±, the candidate will have to be a team player able to argue a position, but also to accept a decision once taken. His view of consensus is that once decisions are taken, particularly in the field of financial stability, everyone should get in line and not speak out afterwards. He will also have to balance his twin desires of implementing radical change at the Bank, which suggests an outsider, and encouraging its internal talent.

Given the job description and person specification, four names stand out as leading potential candidates, two from within the BoE ¨C Andy Haldane and Paul Fisher ¨C and two from the Treasury ¨C Tom Scholar and John Kingman.

Awkwardly, the two Treasury officials have already been named to sit on the four-man panel which will sift initial applications which also includes Sir David Lees, chairman of the BoE¡¯s Court, and Nick Macpherson, the Treasury permanent secretary. A Treasury spokesman said that if any member of the panel applied, he would have to stand down.

Mr Scholar, second permanent secretary to the Treasury, is seen internally as a leading candidate as he already represents the UK at the FSB, devised the BoE¡¯s inflation targeting remit in 1997 and was subsequently the UK representative at the International Monetary Fund.

But some outsiders worry about the precedent of hiring another Treasury official to a senior BoE job. Danny Gabay, director of Fathom Financial Consulting, said: ¡°There is already a perception after the appointment of Mark Carney that the Treasury has claimed some of the bank¡¯s independence and that would be reinforced if the new deputy was a Treasury insider.¡±

Tom Scholar. The popular second permanent secretary to the Treasury has led the government¡¯s response to the financial crisis for much of the period since 2008. He already represents the UK on the Financial Stability Board¡¯s plenary committee. Bolstering his international connections, he was the UK¡¯s executive director at the International Monetary Fund between 2001 and 2007.

John Kingman. Closely involved in the nationalisation of Northern Rock and the recapitalisations of Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, Mr Kingman left the Treasury in 2010 for the private sector at Rothschild. His return to a second permanent secretary position with responsibility for financial services last year was seen as a stepping stone to a more senior official position.

Andy Haldane. Viewed as a maverick freethinker in his role as executive director for financial stability at the Bank of England, Mr Haldane already sits on the bank¡¯s Financial Policy Committee. His promotion would demonstrate that Mr Carney bears no grudges after a public spat over banking regulation in 2012. His reputation for brilliant and off-the-wall speeches is unlikely to appeal to Mr Carney¡¯s desire for consensus.

Paul Fisher The BoE¡¯s executive director for markets has a backroom-boy reputation at the bank, putting in place many of the policies, such as quantitative easing and the Funding for Lending Scheme that were lauded by his bosses. A bank lifer and an economist by training, Mr Fisher is the dark horse potential internal candidate who would be good on consensus and certain never to contradict the boss.

A banker Those seeking the new deputy governor want a strong field of applicants and would like senior bankers to apply. The difficulty is that any candidate would have to be sufficiently high placed in a bank or financial institution, yet untainted by the crisis, and must have deep experience in the field of international financial regulation. There are not many who fit the bill.

A foreigner Just as with the BoE governor, Mr Carney could always look abroad to find the right deputy. Among the travelling circus of financial regulatory negotiators, there are many who have the qualifications to take on the role, but few who are head and shoulders above UK candidates. Both the Treasury and the BoE would have a difficult sales job in suggesting there was not a suitable British candidate.

WHAT IT SAYS WHAT IT MEANS

¡°Credible on both micro- and macroeconomic issues domestically and internationally¡±. Don¡¯t think about applying if you don¡¯t have an impressive international record and unless you can cut it on both the Monetary Policy Committee and Financial Policy Committee.

¡°Acute political sensitivity and awareness will be crucial.¡± The Bank of England might have operational independence from government, but don¡¯t let this go to your head. At the end of the day, remember the Treasury is still in charge.

¡°Undisputed integrity and standing¡±. Don¡¯t think of applying if you have any skeletons in the cupboard from the financial crisis.

¡°The ability to build good relationships with colleagues within the Bank of England and with other partners, such as the Ministers and senior officials in HM Treasury, the PRA and FCA, market participants, and international counterparts.¡± Someone who wants to be star of the show need not bother. This is a backroom job and the only star is Mr Carney.