This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... mm mm mm ... welcome to MoneyBeat I'm Steve Russolillo filling in for Paul vignette ... King Digital Entertainment which makes the wildly popular Candy Crush Saga game is seeking a seven point six billion dollar market value in its IPO ... King is aiming to sell twenty two point two million shares at a price range of twenty one to twenty four dollars ... David Menlow president of IPO Financial dot com ... joins MoneyBeat with his analysis David thank you so much for being here ... Frigidaire says ... write to David you what's your initial reaction to the numbers that we got this morning ... what some what it's like chromatic see because everybody was expecting that came was going to step forward and try to get into the public markets ... the real interesting point about doing so well being the first into the marketplace who really is an axiom for it because the largest market share so they will be ahead of a lot of people in this particular market ... what's your overall take of the company Jimmy got a lot of metrics of this morning about the company's growth and whatnot ... I you what what should take rate now ... well my take is very simply that this is a one trick pony the situation this is candy crush ... I guess the most addictive game that has come out of a long time ... and people are thinking about love the candy crush the competition was glory on this is the ... source of conversation at the couple's gathering ... of what the fact the matter is if they are unable to come up with other games have even ... close to the kind of appeal ... my illustration of the one trick pony could be of very cataclysmic situation for the ... economics of the company and we're seeing some of them at six Year hundred forty four million average daily active users ... I you know over one point four billion games played today ... you know ... say what you will about these numbers here but but but this company is also going public in a very hot IPO market rate now tells a little bit about that ... write to the IPO market for the social media the type of ... delivered this year is very strong ... as you said probably very hot at this point ... people will be clamoring for this particular offering because the company is showing ... thirty percent ... of bottom line margins at the vets are ... incredible number for companies such as this ... so it's unrealistic to think that the stock is going to come ... anywhere near the twenty one to twenty four dollar initial range that's their ... demand is going to be extraordinarily large we could see this thing ... probably have a fifty percent increase what actually goes to the marketplace ... however ... if you look at the rest of the IPO market were not in this bull will wear anything that's an IPO is ... is often the reasons ... is that when the social media sites were not a bubble level this particular point what ... anybody getting into these markets has to keep one eye on next door ... to great when we're looking here are some comparisons I especially when you look at the Discovery's valuation ... but you know the numbers that came ahead of rivals and obviously thing that has been ... on a story that people have all very very closely here what's the difference between Kane and saying to what is king do their thing it doesn't do ... and is king or do we better position than saying it's ... all but six is a good is always going to have the burden of being ... in the public market because of its touch with Facebook eventually ... you take a look at King King is a standalone that stand or with our arms folded say ... we did this on Iran we didn't need any help from any other entity ... so there's always going to be that separation BBH between the two animal but the comparisons ... are going to actually be on level ground ... David Menlow always a pleasure thank you so much for joining us ... thank you ... and more money be coming back in thirty seconds ... Comcast's proposed takeover of Time Warner Cable has sparked fears over whether the combined company would have too much influence on the media industry ... Wall Street Journal mediate Deputy Bureau Chief Amal Sharma has been falling the story ... an e joins us now with the details of all thanks so much for being there ... they're ... so what are the concerns are now about this deal ... well we've seen in the first few weeks since the deal was announced as the ... media companies are set starting to settle and what is is all about initially they were very muted about it it's it's been a steady what this means that one a lot of ... you know I'm strong statements from for me companies ... now what you're seeing both publicly to some extent and privately in our conversations of executives is ... they're worried mainly about the broadband side of the steel Comcast to have forty percent of the U S broadband market if they acquire ... atomic able ... they also have a strong presence in ... broadband ... technology through the platform that they're building which is called ExOne ... aam to to deliver ... the goods delivered to the intended to provide an Internet based ... set top box in and guide for people ... so I think there's a lot of concerns now but what does that mean for the future of bringing ... advance consumer electronics into the living room broadband technologies into the living room getting content to ... a new hearing it from a wide range of companies very big and small that the criticisms about the steel ... yet it really breaks down into two categories are that the content creators the meat the big media companies that ... have the time or as of the world's twenty for Sentry faux Viacom et-cetera and then there are in other distributors the smaller ... up cable companies which ... traditionally a do it you wouldn't really see them complaining too much about something like this but they are worried as well that ... they can get squeezed on fees ... and remember they pay to carry TV programming ... Comcast may get slightly better deal as it gets bigger ... to carry channels that say Time Warner provides or Fox provides ... so if you're the TV channel in you giving your having to get a discount to Comcast ... the fear is that a turnaround to the smaller guys the smaller cable companies ... like their bills ... yes interesting and so ... I guess Comcast they they talked about these these concerns and criticisms from the moment that they announce the steel rate and there's still ... some saying competition is not going to be an issue in the steel should still get the NAB's right yet effective in their argument is all about ... they may mean the breadth of competition that they have so they say look we're not just fighting ... national satellite companies like Dish and DirecTV ... but we're also going up against Verizon in eighteen T with her phone companies they now offer TV ... and they put Netflix and Google and Amazon Prime and all those companies even Apple ... and to the list of competitors so they're telling regulators look we face a lot of competition we've been losing ... weight loss video subscribers for twenty six quarters until ... recently showing a positive change ... and so that's their argument ... aam of course a lot of that is on the video side ... the TV side when you talk about broadband access that's the part of the market I think you see a lot more ... voices coming and saying that isn't as competitive if you really want a high speed ... connection and a lot of markets the cable company is it ... so what's next in terms of the cylinder with a sense of whether it's leaning toward it will go through horrible ... I mean it's so hard to gauge these things it's unpredictable ... aam the Department of Justice and the FCC are going to review the deal ... most of the discussion now seems to be aimed at what conditions would go on the deal if that doesn't guarantee you'll go through but I think you're seeing companies began to position themselves back in on our story today what arguments that are made to regulators about how you should restrict Comcast if it were acquired from a cable these ... remember they Comcast dealt with conditions on when it acquired ... NBC Universal few years ago so they're no stranger to this ... but that's what the debate is about how to put conditions on them ... um you know restrict what they can do in broad and maybe ... when it comes to set top box data which will control a lot of TV viewing data across American cities ... a the requiring them to share some of that those of the the discussions are gone ... Macy's in this one the mall from a thank you so much for joining us here ... mummy come back everything you ever wanted to know about Wall Street pay to assign verbal cue to re now ... Wall Street bonuses are expected to have risen ... eighteen per cent last year with recent figures posted by compensation deferred from prior years ... Wall Street Journal reporter Julie Steinberg is here to break it down ... to only fifteen percent up from a year ago ... the mayor to hear that did it again on straight ... now we're counting from the crisis and but what a lot of this was driven by was the deferred compensation and if you recall Steve deferred comp was given ... to employees few years ago they didn't want it because it effectively means that decades later an inane comments but now looks like it's paying off not only because it's all the getting it now but because I've just and the stock's share prices have risen so much in the past two years ... so ... these numbers compared to ... post financial crisis prefinancial crisis worsened compared to its shore so the average annual bonus right now it is about a hundred and sixty four thousand give or take a few dollars That's ... an for twenty thirteen ... that's the largest average opponents since the financial crisis and is the third highest on record see you can see the industry is really make inroads in climbed back to that prefinancial highest ... and so the sense that this can keep going is that when you hear from people that these ... numbers it can keep going up and up ... I think it depends of one party industry here and if you're an investment banker and you're doing deals if you're doing stock trading and things are going well for you right now but obviously the fixed income divisions on Wall Street had a bit of a tough time last year so their bonuses weren't too high they were down an average of ten percent ... to a depends above across the board people are pretty sanguine ... about ... that we say now that Wall Street is back from the financial person is that no official with the stamp on the idea I think it's a bit on the client's refashioned had ... it you know if they ever said they weren't back but I mean I think it's fair for Sunday would say that we are back in action that people are getting paid on somewhat of what they see cats and people are just rearing to go to ... very interesting stuff Julie Steinberg thank you so much for joining AC ... the search is known for Malaysia Airlines and age three seventy is expanding but how did planes and helicopters go about finding the missing flight ... Wall Street Journal's Jason believing has the Short Answer ... well will search that's how Commander William marks of U S Navy's seventh fleet describes the air in the US is been asked to cover by Malaysian authorities ... for any sign of Malaysia Airlines flight in age three seventy ... there are forty ships and has many aircraft from the U S and other countries around the world ... working for wreckage ... but the search area is a fast growing US officials trouble with new clues suggest the plane ... made veered off course ... looking for what could be small pieces of debris ... how you sort thousands of square miles of water ... as to how ... he received forty on ... the US Australia and New Zealand are using these radar equipped planes they will attack from ... five thousand The ... optics the smalls a basketball ... Hoop increase it was was called the parallel search method ... following the same pattern as a lawnmower ... during a nine hour sorting it's able to come around six thousand square miles ... the size of this box on them now ... what about helicopters ... U S uses the MH sixty Seahawk helicopter ... searching from an altitude of one to three thousand feet ... it's for looking into our radar covers a twenty mile wide swath ... over the course of three a half hour sorting it's capable of scanning for six hundred square miles What's radar can do is pick up objects ... who will the water surface ... after five days where objects from aircraft disaster still float the former vice chairman of the US is National Transportation safety Board ... who oversaw the investigation into the crash of TWA flight eight hundred ... says ... yes people were finding things weeks afterward though long distances from there the country's founding that they haven't found anything yet you think that there would be pillows and ... seats there is no precedent to anything even close to this are more aircraft and is commander Mark says in terms of their assets ... if reached the saturation point ... and are now searching for her and further away ... from quite a nice three seventies planned routes ... the short answer ... that's it for money be coming up on the beest live dress shirts are two men as she is our two women ... Lunch Break explains the obsession with men who own hundreds of shirts and are proud of it ... that's coming up and and ... thanks for watching MoneyBeat I'm Steber slow low have agreed to ... I ... ay ay mm mm I ...