Cell biology is the discipline of biological sciences that studies the structure, physiology, growth, reproduction and death of the basic structural and functional unit of all living organisms called as cell. Immunology is another essential branch of the medical and biological sciences, it includes the physiological functioning of the immune system in conditions of both health and diseases

 The Journal focuses and appreciates high quality paper submissions in the areas of,

Journal of Cell Biology & Immunology is an official peer reviewed journal for the rapid publication of innovative research and offers Open Access option to meet the needs of authors and maximize article visibility.

 Journal of Cell Biology & Immunology includes a wide range of fields such as biology of all the living organisms, in particular to their cell anatomy, physiology and metabolism. Immunology covers the aspects of in-vitro and in-vivo immunity besides immune diseases like autoimmune disorders and their research in its discipline to create a platform for the authors to make their contribution towards the journal and the editorial office promises a peer review process for the submitted manuscripts for the quality of publishing.

 This peer reviewed medical journal is using Editorial Manager System for quality in review process. Editorial Manager System is an online manuscript submission, review and tracking systems. Review processing is performed by the editorial board members of Journal of Cell Biology & Immunology or outside experts; at least two independent reviewers approval followed by editor approval is required for acceptance of any citable manuscript. Authors may submit manuscripts and track their progress through this system, hopefully to publication. Reviewers can download manuscripts and submit their opinions to the editor. Editors can manage the whole submission/review/revise/publish process.

 Journal of Cell Biology & Immunology is an academic journal which aims to publish most complete and reliable source of information on the discoveries and current developments in the mode of Research articles, Review articles, Case reports, Short communications, etc. in all areas of the field and making them freely available through online without any restrictions or any other subscriptions to researchers worldwide.

It is the study of cells origin and the question of how cells became individual units. Cellular metabolism is about the biochemical processes by which energy is either created or used in the cell, the study of cell energy is inherently linked to the study of cell origins. 

 Related Journals of Cell Origin and Metabolism 

 Journal of Biomimetics Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering, Journal of Tissue Science & Engineering, Advances in Cell Science and Tissue Culture, Trends in Cell Biology, Current Opinion in Cell Biology, Journal of Cell Science, Molecular Biology of the Cell, Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences

Cell organelles and components gives includes the various vital components of the cell such as mitochondria, ribosomes, endoplasmic reticulum, chloroplast, nucleus etc. Cell Organelles and Components play a vital role in the functioning and working of the cell. 

 Related Journals of Cell Orgnanelles 

 Journal of Interferon and Cytokine Research, Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology, Molecular Membrane Biology, Chemistry and Physics of Lipids, International Journal of Experimental Pathology, Cellular and Molecular Biology Letters, Journal of Molecular Histology

It is the process by which a cell detects and responds to signals in its environment, in depth it is more related to the biophysics and biochemistry to identify different types of communication methods between living cells and to perform important bodily processes that are necessary for the survival of organisms. 

 Related Journals of Cell communication 

 Bioenergetics: Open Access, Journal of Cell Signaling, Biochemistry & Analytical Biochemistry, Journal of Aging Science, Journal of Cellular & Molecular Pathology, Advanced Techniques in Biology & Medicine, Biochimica et Biophysica Acta - Bioenergetics, Immunology and Cell Biology, Biochemical Journal, Molecular and Cellular Neurosciences

The ability of cells to perceive and correctly respond to their surroundings is the basis of development, tissue repair, and immunity as well as normal tissue homeostasis. Errors in signaling interactions and cellular information processing are responsible for diseases such as cancer, autoimmunity, and diabetes. By understanding cell signaling, diseases may be treated more effectively and, theoretically, artificial tissues may be created. 

 Related Journals of Cell Signaling 

 Cell and Tissue Research, Journal of Cellular Biochemistry, Bioarchitecture, Purinergic Signalling, Histochemistry and Cell Biology, Cell Stress and Chaperones, Cytotherapy, Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling, Journal of Biological Engineering

A cell junction (or intercellular bridge) is a sort of structure that exists inside the tissue of some multicellular organisms, such as animals. Cell junctions comprises of multiprotein complexes that provide contact between neighbouring cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix. Cell junctions can be divided into two types: those that link cells together, also called intercellular junctions (tight, gap, adherens, and desmosomal junctions), and those that link cells to the extracellular matrix (focal contacts/adhesion plaques and hemidesmosomes). These junctions play a prominent role in maintaining the integrity of tissues in multicellular organisms and some, if not all of them, are involved in signal transduction. 

 Related Journals of Cell Biology Junctions 

 Journal of Cell Science & Therapy, Single Cell Biology, Journal of Molecular Biology: Open Access, Cell Biology: Research & Therapy, Journal of Molecular Biomarkers & Diagnosis, Transcriptomics: Open Access, Cell, Journal of Cell Biology, Molecular Cell, Journal of Cell Science, Journal of Cellular Physiology, Molecular Cell, Genetics and Molecular Biology, BMC Molecular Biology, Advances in Molecular and Cell Biology, Molecular Biology of the Cell, Insights in Cell Science

Cell synthesis involves the synthesis of various proteins and chemicals that are vital for the development and functioning of the cell. Cell synthesis is essential for the growth and development of the cell. Synthesis phase also known as S-phase is a part of cell cycle starts with the replication of DNA and ends when all the chromosomes has been replicated that is each chromosome has two sister chromatids. It occurs between G1 phase and G2 phase. This phase results in the effectively doubled quantity of DNA and the synthesis is completed very quickly because of the sensitivity of exposed base pairs to harmful external factors such as mutagens. Precision and accuracy of this phase is mandatory to prevent genetic abnormalities sometimes which lead to cell death or disease. 

 Related Journals of Cell synthesis 

 Journal of Cell Science & Therapy, Single Cell Biology, Journal of Stem Cell Research & Therapy, Journal of Cell Signaling, Cell, Journal of Cell Biology, Molecular Cell, Journal of Cell Science, Journal of Cellular Physiology

Cell regeneration is the science in which the procedure of reestablishment, reclamation and development that makes genomes, cells, living beings and biological systems. Cell regeneration is a characteristic changes or occasions that cause aggravation or harm. Some parts of our bodies can repair themselves quite well after injury, but others don¡¯t repair at all. We certainly can¡¯t regrow a whole leg or arm, but some animals can regrow their body parts. Regeneration occurs in both human and animals. In Humans regrowth of a damaged organ part from the remaining tissue is known as regeneration. Humans are able to regenerate some organs, for example the liver. If a part of organ is lost by disease or injury, the organ grows back to its original size. Biggest example of regeneration in humans is our skin as it is constantly being renewed and repaired. Regeneration also occurs in animals. There are few animals that can regenerate their body parts. For example, flatworm or planarian can regenerate both the head from a tail piece, and the tail from a head piece. 

 Related Journals of Cell Regeneration 

 Journal of Cell Science & Therapy, Journal of Stem Cell Research & Therapy, Tissue Science & Engineering, Molecular Cloning & Genetic Recombination, Cell, Journal of Cell Biology, Molecular Cell, Journal of Cell Science, Journal of Cellular Physiology, Neural Regeneration Research

Cell biology Techniques are used to study the physiological properties of cells, their structure, the organelles they contain, interactions with their environment, their life cycle, division, death and cell function. Few such techniques are General Biochemical and Biophysical Methods, Spectrophotometry, Fluorescence, Radiochemistry, Differential Precipitation of Proteins, Chromatography, Electrophoresis, Immunoassays, Hybridization and Blotting Techniques. 

 Related Journals of Cell Biology Techniques 

 Cytotechnology, Tissue and Cell, Cell and Tissue Banking, Journal of Morphological Sciences, Open Stem Cell Journal, Journal of Cell Biology, Molecular Cell, Journal of Cell Science, Journal of Cellular Physiology

It is the study of the process by which the living organisms grow and develop. Studies the genetic control of cell growth, differentiation and "morphogenesis," which is the process that gives rise to tissues, organs and anatomy. 

 Related Journals of Developmental Biology 

 Journal of Membrane Biology, Cell Biology International, Current Protocols in Cell Biology, Archives of Oral Biology, Cellular Reprogramming, Acta Histochemica, Journal of Receptor and Signal Transduction Research, Pathology Research and Practice, Cell Health and Cytoskeleton.

The procedure of programmed cell death, or apoptosis, is by and large portrayed by particular morphological qualities and vitality subordinate biochemical components. Cell death is a vital process of the cell to maintain the ratio of the cells such as cell movement. The cells of a multicellular organism are members of a highly organized community. The number of cells in this community is highly regulated and it done not only by controlling the rate of cell division, but also by controlling the rate of cell death. If cells are no longer needed, they destroy themselves by activating an intracellular death program. This process is called Apoptosis. The amount of apoptosis that occurs in developing and adult animal tissues can amaze us. If one will observe vertebrate nervous system, up to half of the nerve cells normally die soon after they are formed. In a healthy adult human, billions of cells die in the bone marrow and intestine every hour. 

 Related Journals of Apoptosis 

 Journal of Cell Science & Therapy, Journal of Stem Cell Research & Therapy, Cellular and Molecular Biology, Cell Biology: Research & Therapy, Cell, Journal of Cell Biology, Molecular Cell, Journal of Cell Science, Journal of Cellular Physiology, Neural Regeneration Research, Insights in Cell Science

It is defined as resistance to infectious disease and the collection of cells and tissues that protects the body from infection is known as the immune system. The coordinated reaction of the cells of the immune system to a pathogen is termed as the immune response. 

 Related Journals of Immunity 

 Nature Reviews Immunology, Annual Review of Immunology, Trends in Immunology, Immunological Reviews, Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Mucosal Immunology, Advances in Immunology, Emerging Microbes and Infections, Pediatric Allergy and Immunology

It is the state in which the immune system's ability to fight against foreign body that cause infectious disease will be compromised or entirely absent and the diseases that result when one or more parts of the immune system are missing or defective. 

 Related Journals of Immunodeficiency diseases 

 Arthritis and Rheumatism, AIDS, Immunology and Cell Biology, Journal of Neuroinflammation, Infection and Immunity, Clinical and Experimental Allergy, Critical Reviews in Immunology, Expert Review of Vaccines, International Immunology, Immunologic Research

It is the conditions in which the body¡¯s own immune system acts against it Ex: Inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, diabetes mellitus type 1. 

 Related Journals of Autoimmune diseases 

 Journal of Arthritis, Journal of Infectious Diseases & Therapy, Molecular Immunology, Tuberculosis, Immunobiology, Journal of Clinical Immunology, Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Immunity and Ageing, Journal of Immunological Methods, Parasite Immunology

It tudies all aspects of immune system in animals. It is a branch under biomedical science and related to zoology and veterinary sciences. It investigates the physiological functions of the animal immune system. 

 Related Journals of Veterinary immunology 

 Journal of Vaccines & Vaccination, Journal of Veterinary Science & Technology, Virology & Mycology, Journal of Veterinary Science & Medical Diagnosis, Research & Reviews: Journal of Veterinary Sciences, Journal of Animal Health and Behavioural Science, Journal of Vaccines & Clinical Trials, Journal of Veterinary Medicine and Allied Science

Immunotherapy is the "treatment of disease by inducing, enhancing, or suppressing an immune response". Immunotherapies designed to elicit or amplify an immune response are classified as activation immunotherapies, while immunotherapies that reduce or suppress are classified as suppression immunotherapies. 

 Related Journals of Immunotherapy 

 Single Cell Biology, Journal of Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis, Immunotherapy: Open Access, Journal of Allergy & Therapy, Journal of Clinical & Cellular Immunology, Journal of Vaccines & Vaccination, Immunological Disorders & Immunotherapy

Classical immunology deals with the fields of epidemiology and medicine. Immunology alone is the study of response of an organism to antigenic challenge and its recognition of what is self and what is not. It deals with the defence mechanisms including all physical, chemical and biological properties of the organism that help it to combat its susceptibility to foreign organisms, material, etc. Classical immunology deals with the relationship between the body systems, pathogens, and immunity. 

 Related Journals of Classical immunology 

 Journal of Stem Cell Research & Therapy, Journal of Molecular and Genetic Medicine, Journal of Immunobiology, Journal of Molecular Immunology, Journal of Allergy & Therapy, Journal of Clinical & Cellular Immunology, Immunome Research, International Journal of Inflammation, Cancer and Integrative Therapy, Rheumatology: Current Research

It studies the evolution of immunity and the immune system over ages among animals and plants. The main areas of study include:
 the study of relationships between nonspecific (innate) and specific (acquired, or adaptive) immunity
 the study of how graft rejection occurs
 the study of occurrence and historical development of T- and B-systems of immunity

 Evolutionary immunology also looks at different cell types of the immune system and the historical development of the ability to recognize foreign antigenic material.

 Related Journals of Evolutionary immunology

 Journal of Stem Cell Research & Therapy, Journal of Molecular and Genetic Medicine, Journal of Immunobiology, Journal of Molecular Immunology, Journal of Allergy & Therapy, Journal of Clinical & Cellular Immunology, Immunome Research, International Journal of Inflammation, Cancer and Integrative Therapy, Rheumatology: Current Research



Immunity and the immune system starts its development much before birth in the fetus and this development continues even after reaching adulthood. The ability to respond to antigens and foreign invaders is thus dependent on: Age of the person, Type of antigen, maternal factors, Area of body. 

 Related Journals of Developmental immunology 

 Journal of Vaccines & Vaccination, Journal of Antivirals & Antiretrovirals, Journal of Medical Microbiology & Diagnosis, Pediatrics & Therapeutics, Journal of Data Mining in Genomics & Proteomics, Immunochemistry & Immunopathology, Journal of Mucosal Immunology Research, Reproductive Immunology: Open Access, Journal of Clinical & Experimental Neuroimmunology

Diagnostic immunology is a collective term for a variety of diagnostic techniques that rely on the specificity of the bond between antibodies and antigens. Diagnostic immunology is well-suited for the detection of even the smallest of amounts of (bio)chemical substances. Antibodies specific for a desired antigen can be conjugated with a radiolabel, fluorescent label, or color-forming enzyme and are used as a "probe" to detect it. Well known applications of this include pregnancy tests, immunoblotting, ELISA and immunohistochemical staining of microscope slides. 

 Related Journals of Diagnostic immunology 

 Journal of Clinical & Experimental Dermatology Research, Journal of Cell Science & Therapy, Journal of Allergy & Therapy, Journal of Vaccines & Vaccination, Journal of Transmitted Diseases and Immunity, Insights in Allergy, Asthma & Bronchitis

Reproductive immunology refers to a field of medicine that studies interactions (or the absence of them) between the immune system and components related to the reproductive system, such as maternal immune tolerance towards the fetus, or immunological interactions across the blood-testis barrier. The concept has been used by fertility clinics to explain the fertility problems, recurrent miscarriages and pregnancy complications observed when this state of immunological tolerance is not successfully achieved. Immunological therapy is the new up and coming method for treating many cases of previously "unexplained infertility" or recurrent miscarriage 

 Related Journals of Reproductive immunology 

 Human Genetics & Embryology, Gynecology & Obstetrics, Reproductive System & Sexual Disorders: Current Research, Journal of Pregnancy and Child Health, Journal of Nutritional Disorders & Therapy, Clinics in Mother and Child Health, Clinics in Mother and Child Health, Gynecology & Obstetrics