King, the British computer games maker behind Candy Crush Saga, is seeking to raise up to $530m (319m) in an initial public offering that would value the company at up to $7.6bn.

The company said in filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission that it will offer 15.5m shares for between $21 and $24 a piece when it floats on the New York Stock Exchange. Its investors, who include private equity firms Index Ventures and Apax, will sell an additional 6.7m shares.

Those figures put King¡¯s valuation even higher than the $5bn previously forecast , and are likely to stoke fears that it is stretching its ambitions too far.

The company, which was founded in 2003, has enjoyed a surged in growth over the last few years. Its revenues have grown from $64m in 2011 to $1.9bn last year ¨C equivalent to $2.7m per employee - whilst it has turned a pre-tax loss of $698,000 into a $714.3m profit.

The mere fact it is profitable gives it a huge advantage over many other technology companies such as Twitter, which went public despite the fact it is loss-making.

However, King¡¯s IPO documents also reveal a heavy dependence on Candy Crush Saga, which is likely to unsettle investors.

The game, in which players look for patterns in coloured digital jewels, drove 78pc of all of King¡¯s revenues in the fourth quarter of 2013, as some 93m people logged in to play each day.

Its phenomenal success has echoes of Farmville, the Facebook game made by King¡¯s rival, Zynga, and which generated a frenzy of excitement around the company ahead of its flotation in 2011. However, Zynga¡¯s value quickly fell to around a third of its IPO price, as the company struggled to produce another hit of the same scale.

Analysts have said that IPO investors were still ¡°haunted¡± by the ghost of Zynga, and that they now regarded the whole mobile gaming sector as ¡°untouchable¡±.

¡°King simply must create multi-decade franchises around characters that last for generations - not for fortnights - before they can have a successful IPO at the valuation they want,¡± Sam Hamadeh, founder of the research firm, PrivCo, said just before King made its documents public last month.

King has admitted that it is vulnerable to some of the same problems as Zynga, noting in its pre-IPO documents that it makes 95pc of its revenues from just three titles ¨C Candy Crush, Pret Rescue Saga and farm Heroes Saga.

However, co-founder and chief executive Riccardo Zacconi also argued that it has a ¡°low-cost, low-risk process¡± for developing new games, which mean King is well-equipped for ¡°the long haul¡±.

He and other members of King¡¯s executive team own around a third of the company. Apax is King¡¯s largest shareholder with a 48.2pc stake, whilst Index owns 8.3pc.

However, he is not the biggest individual shareholder on the King team. The company¡¯s longstanding chairman, Melvyn Morris, a 58 year-old British entrepreneur who has built and sold a string of companies, owns 12.2pc of the business. King's co-founder John Sebastian Knuttson is also a major stakeholder, with 5.9pc of the company, while Stephane Kurgan, its chief operating officer, holds 2.5pc.