BELVIDERE ¡ª Ryan Jones is looking forward to making one of Fiat Chrysler's most popular vehicles. But before that work can begin, he'll endure the longest layoff in his nearly 20-year career at the Belvidere Assembly Plant.

Fiat Chrysler officially laid off approximately 4,100 hourly workers today as the company retools the 5 million-square-foot plant for the much anticipated production of the Jeep Cherokee. That's about 90 percent of its approximately 4,500 workers.

Some workers are unsure what they'll do with so much time off without their usual pay.

¡°Hopefully, it all goes smoothly,¡± said Jones, 40, of Bonus Township, who expects to be called back to work in the spring. ¡°(For now), I have to readjust to everyday home life. If it¡¯s nice, I¡¯ll go for a run or use my home gym.¡±

Fiat Chrysler officials announced in July the company¡¯s plans to invest $350 million in the Belvidere plant, as well as increase the plant¡¯s workforce by 300 people. By moving Jeep Cherokee production from Toledo, Ohio, the company hopes to increase its annual production of Jeep Cherokees by about 40 percent, to 300,000.

Workers watched the last Jeep Compass and Jeep Patriot roll off the assembly line on Dec. 23 before shutting down the plant.

Employees received their normal pay over the holidays. Today is the first official day they¡¯ll use to file unemployment claims. They receive unemployment benefits from the government and supplemental unemployment benefits from Chrysler, which amounts to 74 percent of their pay.

United Auto Workers Local 1268 President George Welitschinsky has said retooling will take about five months. He did not return calls for this story.

Workers were told they would be called back to work in a staggered fashion.

Renee Panattoni, 56, of Belvidere, expects to be bored during her layoff. She¡¯ll rest to ease the aches and pains she gets from standing on her feet during her door assembly shifts. She¡¯ll also spend time visiting her elderly parents, who are divorced.

¡°I¡¯m going to take that time to help them out more,¡± Panattoni said. ¡°(But) I guarantee by the time January is over, I¡¯ll be dying to get back to work.¡±

Jeff Fielding, 44, of Rockford has worked nearly a decade at the Belvidere plant, which also has been home to the Dodge Dart. The team leader's layoff should only last a month because he must begin training.

He¡¯ll help his wife with household chores and spend more time with his family.

¡°Honestly, I¡¯d rather be working straight through,¡± he said.