U.S. stocks closed mixed on Wednesday on a rather unexciting day for Wall Street, aside from a fresh round of drama at . Earlier in the session, investors mostly took their cue from a rough session in Asia today, with markets focused on concerns about China's economy, despite the plunge in exports data already being a few days old.

At the closing bell in New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 11.17 points to settle at 16,340.08, for its third slip in a row, while the Nasdaq rose 16.14 points to 4,323.33 and the S&P 500 edged up 0.57 of a point to 1,868.20.

In global markets Wednesday, Asian shares finished in a sea of red, led by losses in Japan, with the Nikkei settling lower by 2.59%.

European stocks also settled lower, paced by losses in Germany. President Barack Obama met with Ukraine Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk at the White House today, in support of the country's new government as Russia shows no signs of backing down, and pushes to annex Crimea.

In corporate activity, ( ) announced this afternoon that it is being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission, news that is vindication for Pershing Capital Management's Bill Ackman, who has been advocating against the company since 2012. Shares fell more than 7.3%. Earlier in the day, the company issued a response to Ackman's attack Tuesday on , which focused on what he said were violations in its business in China. said it remains confident about its dealings in the country, and that its practices are lawful.

( ) closed down 1.4% after the company said that it has lost a ruling in a patent dispute over its Celebrex drug, with plans to appeal the decision.

Elsewhere, retailer (NASDAQ:EXPR) fell over 12% after its quarterly sales and outlook disappointed investors. Krispy Kreme ( ) and ( ) are out with quarterly numbers after the closing bell.

In other stock news, Tesla ( ) will stop selling in New Jersey on April 1 after the state made it illegal for car makers to sell vehicles to consumers without a dealer. New Jersey follows Arizona and Texas in insisting that Tesla follow the traditional ways of selling vehicles through licensed dealer franchises. Shares of Tesla reversed earlier losses, climbing 3% Wednesday.

Fannie Mae (OTCQB:FNMA) continued selling off today after a bipartisan bill was introduced in the Senate that would continue government-backing of mortgages but would wind down the firms. The bill has the support of the White House.

GM ( ) is reportedly being looked a possible criminal liability by federal prosecutors on the handling of its ignitions recall, with its faulty switches linked to 13 crash deaths. Shares of the automaker were off by more than 0.9%.

Men's Wearhouse ( ) finally struck a deal to buy rival Jos. A. Bank ( ) in a $1.8 billion deal, while also posting a wider-than-anticipated fourth quarter loss and sales below estimates, with shares down 2.5% today.

In commodities, gold for April delivery rose another 1.8% to finish at $1,370.50 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, its third-straight session climb. April oil, meanwhile, fell $2.04 to settle at $97.99 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.