COLUMBUS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Lancaster Pollard¡¯s housing group has announced that Adam Diehl will expand his territory in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions to cover a total of nine states. Diehl was promoted to vice president in early 2016 to provide investment and mortgage banking finance services to clients in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. Beginning in January of 2017, he will also be responsible for clients in Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont and West Virginia.

¡°Adam is the right person to represent our housing group¡¯s expansion in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions,¡± said David Lacki, managing director of Lancaster Pollard¡¯s housing group. ¡°He has been steeped in the nuances and complexities of housing transactions for several years and in the process has cultivated a comprehensive understanding of capital solutions, including loans insured by a government agency or sponsored enterprises, as well as taxable and tax-exempt bonds.¡±

Since joining Lancaster Pollard in 2009, Diehl has provided analytical support on a range of bond transactions and mortgage loans for construction and refinance projects totaling approximately $380 million. He has experience with a wide array of financing programs, including Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance, Fannie Mae multifamily affordable housing programs, taxable and tax-exempt bonds, U.S. Department of Agriculture guaranteed loans and low-income housing tax credits (LIHTCs).

¡°With the recent expansion of his territory, Adam will be able to help even more owners and developers of market-rate, income-restricted and subsidized rental properties by developing low-cost, creative financing options,¡± said Lacki.

Diehl will be working out of Lancaster Pollard¡¯s main office in Columbus, Ohio. He received his bachelor¡¯s degree in finance with a minor in economics from the Fisher College of Business at The Ohio State University. He holds Series 65, Series 52 and Series 79 general securities representative licenses. He can be reached at (614) 224-8800 or adiehl@lancasterpollard.com.