This editorial appeared first in the New York Times:

China is causing new anxieties in Asia with a defence budget for 2014 that totals $132 billion US, up 12.2 per cent over the previous year.

These numbers should not be used as an excuse to ratchet up U.S. military spending. But they do raise legitimate concerns about China's motives that Beijing should seek to dispel, especially at a time when regional tensions are rising.

Although China's overall economic growth rate has declined, the new defence budget reflects the biggest increase in three years and continues a several-decades-long trend of double-digit increases.

Many experts assume that the real total is higher. Even so, the budget is far below that of the United States, which was $526.8 billion for fiscal 2014 and finances the world's largest, most expensive and advanced military program. It is reasonable to expect that as the world's second-largest economy, China, over time, would invest more on defence to protect its security and economic interests.

But the budget increases are not taking place in a vacuum. With its aggressive new approach to the region, China has sowed suspicion among its neighbours, who fear not only economic but military dominance.

China is engaged in a dangerous dispute with Japan over the sovereignty of islands administered by Japan in the East China Sea, raising fears that frequent movements around the islands by Chinese military patrols and Japanese fishing vessels could spark a conflict. Last November, China stunned Japan, South Korea and the United States by declaring a new air defence zone over parts of that sea.

China has also been intimidating Southeast Asian nations that oppose its territorial claims in the South China Sea, with its fisheries and reputed oil and gas reserves.

While some experts predict that it could be decades before the Chinese military catches up with the United States, China is investing in new systems, including submarines, surface ships and anti-ship ballistic missiles, that could be used to further intimidate neighbours or deny the United States access to Asian waters to defend its allies.

China says the world has nothing to fear, but it could mitigate concerns by explaining why it needs such hefty increases and where the money will be spent, as the United States does. More consultation between the Chinese and U.S. militaries would also be useful. So would a serious effort to resolve the territorial disputes, or at least agree on a code of conduct for managing them.