Most snowbirds who fly south this time of year do so with the express goal of hitting the beach, the golf course or soaking up the sun at poolside.

When I reached the former Bay Street stock market strategist Monday at his winter getaway in Rancho Mirage, Calif., he was doing what he always does: following the daily gyrations of the markets.

For the record, it was indeed a lovely day in Rancho Mirage, the preferred retreat of long-ago Hollywood stars like Frank Sinatra and former U.S. presidents like Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan. The temperature outside hovered around 20 C, I was told, under mostly sunny skies.

But Tuey, who spent decades tracking the markets in Toronto for BMO Nesbitt Burns and RBC Capital Markets before forming his own Vancouver-based independent advisory firm in the late 1980s, heads south each winter to work, not play.

¡°I do absolutely nothing here. I watch the stock market all day long, just as I do at home in Vancouver,¡± he says, happily. ¡°I get absolute peace and quiet here. A lot of people say, ¡®Aren¡¯t you lonely?¡¯ And I say this is exactly what I seek: solitude, so I can think better.¡±

I learned long ago to pay attention to what Tuey thinks. That¡¯s why I¡¯ve interviewed him dozens of times over the past 25 years, dating back to my days at the now-defunct Financial Times of Canada.

Celebrity forecasters like George Soros, Marc Faber and Abby Joseph Cohen get a lot more airtime, but they¡¯re frequently dead wrong (witness Soros¡¯s repeated, wrong-headed predictions about a collapse in China).

Tuey, now in his 80s, has a habit of being right. But he doesn¡¯t want or need the spotlight, he says. He¡¯s content to make money for his clients, while accepting their thanks for doing so.

He has also reached a point in life where he feels free to be brutally honest about the business in which he has worked for well over half a century. And it¡¯s not all laudatory. ¡°We¡¯re not in the gum-flapping business. This isn¡¯t show business. The proof in the pudding at the end of the day is, show me the money,¡± he says.

¡°Market forecasting is not rocket science. The key is understanding cause and effect relationships. And the key to that is understanding the central bank¡¯s mandate, and the impact of monetary policy on the economy and the stock market. That¡¯s absolutely essential. If you don¡¯t know that, you start babbling nonsense.¡±

Since the global financial crisis of 2008, and the massive stimulus packages subsequently rolled out by the world¡¯s central banks, Tuey has been an unwavering bull. He is still a bull today.

That¡¯s despite the intermittent pullbacks that have occurred since the bull market began in 2009. And it¡¯s despite the fireworks over Brexit, the endless hand-wringing over a potential collapse in China, or the current crisis du jour over Italy¡¯s shaky banks.

Although some worry warts fear President-elect Donald Trump could trigger a trade war, or that rising interest rates could kill the U.S. recovery, Tuey remains serenely confident that the best is yet to come.

What does matter, he says, is that interest rates remain low, inflation is subdued, growth is modest but steady, nervous investors are sitting on mountains of cash waiting to be invested, and a period of synchronous global growth is underway.

¡°The Dow and the S&P 500 will see all-time highs long before the snow flies,¡± Tuey correctly told me last April, when the key U.S. indexes sat six to seven per cent below their current record levels. ¡°There¡¯s no point in worrying about the short term when we¡¯re in the midst of one of the biggest bull markets on record.¡±

As Tuey sees it, the first leg of the bull market began in October 2008 and ended in May of 2015, when stocks hit what were then new highs. The second leg began in February of this year, and he expects it to be the longest and strongest leg of all.

¡°I said almost four years ago that the S&P 500 would reach at least 2,500 before this bull market is over, and in the final blow off it might hit as high as 3,500. We¡¯re in a powerful, long-term, cyclical bull market. That¡¯s what people should focus on.¡±

Although the stock market is likely to see a mild correction or pullback in coming weeks or months, following the surprisingly strong rally that followed the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election, Tuey says there is plenty of blue sky ahead.

¡°History shows the best environment for equities is when you have a period of modest growth and stable inflation, which is what we¡¯ve seen over the last eight years,¡± he says.

¡°The second key point is that for the past 100 years or more, the more severe the economic downturn, the more powerful and enduring is the subsequent bull market. When you¡¯re faced with financial Armageddon as the U.S. was back in 2008, the Fed eases much more aggressively than ever before, and they stay accommodative for much longer than normal. That¡¯s what they¡¯ve been doing.¡±