NEW YORK, Feb 9 ¡ª American equity-index futures slipped with Australia¡¯s dollar, stocks and government bonds after Chinese imports plunged and US payrolls data fueled speculation over the outlook for higher interest rates. Oil extended gains following the best two weeks for Brent crude in 17 years.

Standard & Poor¡¯s 500 Index futures fell 0.4 per cent by 8.56am in Tokyo, as the S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.5 per cent in Sydney. The Aussie lost 0.4 per cent as yields on 10-year debt jumped 11 basis points, pacing Friday¡¯s increase in Treasury rates. New Zealand stocks also fell with both countries counting China as their biggest trading partner, while Japanese index futures signaled gainsamid a weaker yen. Copper futures declined 0.1 per cent as Brent and West Texas Intermediate oil rose a third day, climbing at least 1.4 per cent.

Imports to China slumped the most in more than five years in January, while exports unexpectedly fell, swelling the trade surplus to a record and highlighting the weakness in domestic demand for Asia¡¯s No. 1 economy. US payrolls capped the biggest three-month gain in 17 years, a report Friday showed. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras reaffirmed his rejection of the country¡¯s bailout program yesterday, while Ukraine peace talks are set to resume this weekamid escalating violence there.

¡°Chinese policy makers are acutely aware of potential issues within their economy and the bias is for more stimulus,¡± Tim Schroeders, a portfolio manager who helps oversee about US$1 billion (RM3.56 billion) in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne, said by phone. ¡°The US jobs data reaffirms the likelihood of a Fed change in policy around mid year. It caught the market on the wrong foot to a degree. It¡¯s realigned people¡¯s thoughts.¡±

The Aussie held losses after Prime Minister Tony Abbott survived a challenge to his leadership, with lawmakers in his Liberal Party voting 61 to 39 against a motion that would have forced a ballot on whether to oust him. Australian debt due in a decade yielded 2.56 per cent in a second day of declines for the notes.

The New Zealand dollar fell 0.2 per cent to 73.50 US cents after sinking 0.4 per cent on Friday, while New Zealand government bonds yielded 3.21 per cent, up three basis points, or 0.04 per centage point. The euro was little changed at US$1.1313 after earlier dropping as much as 0.3 per cent.

Yields on 10-year US Treasuries jumped 14 basis points to 1.96 per cent on Friday as the jobs data underlined the risk of a US rate increase this year. While utilities and health-care stocks drove the S&P 500 lower, bank stocks gained 0.7 per cent on the outlook for borrowing costs. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index, which tracks the greenback against 10 major peers, climbed 1 per cent to pare its decline in the week.

Shipments from China slipped 3.3 per cent in January, after rising 9.7 per cent in December, data from the customs administration in Beijing showed Yesterday. Economists had projected a 5.9 per cent increase. China cut the reserve ratio for banks last week and reduced interest rates in November as it seeks to stoke growth and head off a domestic downturn.

Futures on the SGX FTSE China A50 Index dropped 0.7 per cent in trading at the end of last week, while contracts on Japan¡¯s Nikkei 225 Stock Average were bid up 1.1 per cent at 17,850 in the Osaka pre-market after the yen¡¯s 1.4 per cent drop against the dollar on Friday. The Japanese currency gained 0.1 per cent to 118.98 per dollar in Today trading.

Payrolls in the US swelled by 257,000 workers last month, following a 329,000 gain in December that was bigger than previously reported. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a 228,000 increase in January. The unemployment rate climbed to 5.7 per cent.

¡°The data supports the view that labor-market conditions are converging towards the Fed¡¯s full-employment mandate and on its current trajectory will encourage the Fed to start rate hikes from mid-2015,¡± Mark Smith, a senior economist in Auckland at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd., wrote in an e-mail to clients, referring to the US Federal Reserve.

Brent crude gained 1.5 per cent to US$58.66 a barrel, up about 26 per cent from an almost six-year settlement low reached January 13. Brent surged 18 per cent in the 10 trading days to February 6, the most since March 1998, though it is still down almost 50 per cent from a high reached in June.

WTI oil jumped 2.1 per cent to US$52.76 a barrel in New York, following a weekly gain of 7.2 per cent, fuelled by speculation a declining rig count in the US indicates US oil production growth will slow. Price volatility rose to the highest level in almost six years.

Leaders of Germany, France, Ukraine and Russia ¡ª which is the world¡¯s biggest energy exporter ¡ª plan to meet in Minsk, Belarus on February 11 for talks on a peace agreement amid ongoing violence in Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said all sides must first agree on their positions before discussions can take place. ¡ª Bloomberg