In 2014, AL.com is looking beyond political battle lines to examine how the Affordable Care Act is affecting the cost, availability and quality of health care in Alabama. We asked what it means to you, and you¡¯ve responded.

Hundreds of Alabamians have shared specific personal experiences with AL.com that explain why they're in favor of the law or against it. These stories are helping to guide and inform our reporting.

His situation: Gurganus, the director of recycling at the Alabama Environmental Council, checked out the healthcare.gov site soon after it opened in October and experienced its well-documented glitches.

"It was very frustrating," Gurganus said.

Meanwhile, he said, he learned that his Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama health insurance premium payment was going to go up about $100 per month -- from $180 to $280.

After having allowed about six weeks for the Affordable Care Act website to get fixed, he tried again. He got all the way through the process and at the end, he still couldn't see the plans offered. More frustration.

But he persevered and eventually found a plan on the exchange for about $240 that matched the coverage he had. So even though it was more than his original premium of $180, Gurganus is pleased to have saved $40 from what he would have been paying outside the exchange. On top of that, the deductible on the ACA Silver plan he chose is about $1,500 less, he said, while prescription drugs and co-pay remain unchanged.

He did not qualify for a subsidy via tax credits.

What it means: It's likely that Gurganus' original plan's premium increased due to some of the effects of the Affordable Care Act. The law doesn't allow for insurers to deny or charge more for preexisting conditions anymore, for example. In states like Alabama where medical underwriting, as it is called, was prevalent, many premiums were bound to go up. By going on the exchange, however, Gurganus was able to ameliorate that price hike by finding a plan that matched his coverage and was $40 less expensive than what was offered to him outside the exchange.

His view: "Overall, I'm happy to be spending less for good health insurance, but I'm most appreciative of the fact that friends and family and fellow Americans with preexisting conditions now have access to health insurance," Gurganus said.

But Gurganus said the process was exasperating at times.

"I was able to keep my cool by reminding myself that this is a government program,' Gurganus said. "I've never seen a government program that works efficiently, at least at the beginning. For me it turned out well in the end."