Tokyo police are investigating calls to the U.S. Embassy threatening to kill U.S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy and similar ones targeting Alfred Magleby, the U.S. consul general based on the southern island of Okinawa, an Okinawa police official said. CBS News correspondent Seth Doane says protests regularly pop up in Okinawa over the large U.S. troop presence there, but they are peaceful.

An envelope addressed to the White House has tentatively tested positive for cyanide after two rounds of analysis, the Secret Service said Tuesday. Additional testing will be necessary to confirm the finding. The letter had what was described as a milky substance inside a container, reports CBS News chief White House correspondent Major Garrett.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's ruling Likud Party scored a resounding victory in the country's elections, final results showed today, in a stunning turnaround after a tight race that had put his lengthy rule in jeopardy. The election was widely seen as a referendum on Netanyahu, who has governed the country for the past six years, and CBS News Correspondent Barry Petersen reports it drew an enormous turnout of almost 72 percent.

The charge for Susan Berman's murder has brought the mysteries surrounding Robert Durst back into the spotlight. CBS News correspondent Vladimir Duthiers reports that after Durst's apparent confession on the HBO documentary, "The Jinx," investigators may also be looking at Durst in the disappearance of two teenage girls in California in the mid-'90s.

Oil reserves are swelling in response to the U.S. fracking boom. Industry executives would love to send some of the surplus light sweet crude overseas, but their hands are tied by the country's 40-year-old oil export ban. CBS News MoneyWatch reports on the pressures to lift the ban.

About three dozen high-profile Americans are signing onto a campaign appropriately called "Change the Rule." The group is pressuring the Commission for Presidential Debates (CPD) to change the general election debate rules before the 2016 election ramps up. Specifically, they're proposing a rule that would allow a third candidate -- who is neither a Democrat nor a Republican -- to qualify for the debates. Here is why they want to change the rules.

One of the nation's most popular collegiate programs doesn't involve basketball or football. The women's gymnastics team at the University of Utah attracts the highest average attendance in women's college sports almost every year. CBS News correspondent Omar Villafranca takes us inside the sport that's drawing record crowds.

The American West is known for its rugged landscapes, and it is also famous for being a place of opportunity. CBS News correspondent Seth Doane reports on a neighborhood where that sort of promise can be found -- but this one is a bit farther west than the Rockies.

Sitting is the new smoking, they say, and studies have linked too many hours on your duff to an increased risk for heart disease, diabetes, cancer and early death. Not even regular exercise can counteract the health impact of sitting all day long. So you get the standing desk. But as a newbie, you probably wonder if you're using that brand new standing desk correctly. Here's what you need to know.

It's become one of the great scientific dilemmas of our time. Now, finally, American ingenuity is being brought in to figure out the wonder of the penguin's waddle. CBS News correspondent Mark Phillips reports on results of the waddle testing at the London Zoo.

Saudi woman to be lashed for "insulting" man on social media

Syria shoots down "hostile" U.S. drone, says state news agency

U.S. Air Force vet charged in plot to aid ISIS

Be careful who you get to do your taxes