The Bank of America Digital Mortgage Experience puts you in control of the mortgage application process. Apply online for a new mortgage or refinance your existing home today!

INT. KITCHEN ¨C DAD'S HOUSE - DAY A DAUGHTER sits at a kitchen table with her TABLET. (VO): Applying for a mortgage doesn't have to be stressful¡­ Father comes to doorway Father: Hey honey. Want that house we better get movin. Daughter looks up. Daughter: Okay Dad¡­I'm already on it. Close Up of Daughter navigating contract for a property screen on tablet. She hits, yes I already have a contract with the seller. Screen changes to Sign in and we see her sign in. (VO): Bank of America's Digital Mortgage makes it simple and easy to apply for your mortgage online and on your time. Father enters room with file folders and label maker. Father: You're gonna need these. We have a lot of stuff to print out. Daughter looks up at Father as he leaves and laughs. (VO): Reduce paperwork and save time every step of the way. Daughter holding tablet reviews monthly payment options and selects lower monthly payment option with slider tool and then lower closing costs. VO): You can review loan options and select features that matter to you¡­ranging from lower closing costs to lower monthly payments. Father yells from other room while daughter is still working on tablet. Father: (VO): I can't find my car keys. Have you seen them? Daughter closes out of application. Daughter: I'll be right there. and turns off tablet and leaves it on table as she leaves. (VO): At any point, you can save your application for later. INT. LIVINGROOM ¨C DAD'S HOUSE - DAY Father looking through desk draw. Daughter enters with keys. Daughter: Found them! Father: Oh great. Let me grab my coat, we'll run to the bank and see what they have to offer. Close Up of Daughter. Daughter: No need to Dad, we're good. Close Up of Father. Father: Honey the rates are low right now we should try to lock it in if we can. Daughter pulls phone out of pocket and starts to log into app as she leaves. Daughter: We can do it right now. Dad follows her. Dad: What? Daughter and Father sit on couch. (VO): Pick up where you left off even on a different device and¡­ Daughter holds up phone and Do you want to lock your rate? Is on the screen. She touches Lock in my rate and Loan summary screen loads (VO): Lock your rate to avoid the risk of rising rates, or leave it open and lock later. Father looks at screen. Daughter touches lending specialist button. Dad: Alright but what if you have questions? Daughter: I can talk to a lending specialist if I want. Dad: Oh, I see. Daughter finishes transaction on the phone while father watches. (VO): You're in control every step of the way. Daughter taps screen. Daughter leans her head on Father's shoulder. Daughter: We're all set. Dad: Well, that's it. Daughter: That's it. Dad: Wow, your first house. That really is something. Daughter: I couldn't have done it without you Dad. INT. KITCHEN ¨C DAUGHTER'S HOUSE - DAY DAUGHTER and two friends unpack boxes. Father enters with a pizza. (VO): When life gets complicated, Bank of America helps keep it simple. Apply for your Mortgage online today.