The Los Angeles City Attorney announced Friday the city of Los Angeles filed a federal lawsuit against Time Warner Cable, according to the Los Angeles Times.

Mike Feuer is claiming that the region's largest pay TV provider "stiffed" the city out of roughly $10 billion during the financial crisis after late 2008.

While the cable company was profiting from billions of dollars off of its Los Angeles customers, the city was struggling through extremely tough economic woes.

"This is a day where we are saying enough is enough," Feuer said at a City Hall news conference.

According to the 24-page lawsuit, Time Warner Cable "has blatantly refused to live up to its obligations to the city," while it has collected "more than $1 billion in revenue every two years from residents of Los Angeles."

The cable company, which is already the sole carrier to the Los Angeles Lakers broadcasting rights in the region, will capitalize on another one of the city's beloved sports teams -- the Los Angeles Dodgers.

Time Warner Cable is charging its TV subscribers $4 per month for the newly launched Dodgers channel, even if those customers don't watch the Dodgers. The $50 annual charge has created tensions between the cable company and others such as DirecTV, Dish Network, Charter Communications, Cox Communications and more over the carriage rights to the new channel.

Feuer said the lawsuit has no regards to the cable companies disputes but rather Time Warner owes the city $2.5 million in franchise fees and public, education and governmental channel fees from 2008 and 2009 as well as $7.2 million in fees from 2010 and 2011.

"Time Warner pocketed the money from its subscribers and did not turn it over the city of Los Angeles," Feuers said.

Feuer also said the money that is owed could have gone to hiring 100 police officers.

"As a major job creator, tax contributor and service provider in the City of Los Angeles, Time Warner Cable is an active and responsible corporate citizen in the City of Los Angeles. We are disappointed the city has chosen to bring this action, which we strongly believes is without merit."