Malaysian authorities are currently investigating the theory that the missing Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370 could have been navigated under the radar to the bases on the boarder of Afghanistan and North West Pakistan believed under the Taliban territory.

According to the Independent, Malaysian authorities are already requesting for diplomatic permission to confirm the theory.

Eight days after the Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370 went missing and lost communications with ground control, 25 countries are reportedly collaborating to find the lost aircraft with intensified challenges of coordinating with search efforts in land, air and sea.

Countries involved in search efforts include Pakistan, Uzebekistan, Kygystan, Laos, Burma, Thailand, Vietnam, Australia and Indonesia. The New Zealand Airforce Orion crew has resumed its search in the Indian Ocean.

According to Malaysian Prime Minister Naijib Razak, the Boeing 777 aircraft had disappeared more than a week ago and believed it turned back to fly over Malaysia and headed toward the Indian Ocean.

Reports noted Malaysian military radar signals, including satellite data, suggested the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 had radically changed its course to head northwest which was the area searched by New Zealand's plane.

New Zealand's Orion crew had been working with other search crews from other countries including Malaysia, Australia and the U.S.

As the investigation continues, the pilots of the missing Malaysia Airlines aircraft have become the suspects. Ground staff and airline personnel who have ties with the pilots are currently being questioned, including staff who had worked on the Kuala Lumpur-to-Auckland services.

Four hours after the Flight MH370 went missing, the plane has reportedly sent signals to a satellite. According to a U.S. official who asked fro anonymity, the signals could have meant the Malaysian Airlines plan was still in the air for hundreds of kilometers or more.

Malaysian authorities have decided to expand their search to cover the Indian Ocean as Flight MH370 plane may have flown in that direction several hours after its last contact with ground personnel. The aircraft went off the radar on route to Beijiing from Kuala Lumpur.

Sources of the Independent had revealed that Malaysian authorities were seeking diplomatic permissions to rule out the possibility of the plane being flown over Taliban-controlled territory.

According to the Herald, large areas of the southern half of Afghanistan are controlled by the Afghan Taliban, while some areas of north-west Pakistan, adjacent to or near to the Afghan border, are ruled by the Pakistani Taliban.