More Americans hopped aboard trains, buses and ferries in 2006 than they had in nearly a half-century, according to figures released this week by the American Public Transportation Association.

The last time the nation saw this many boardings ¡ª 10.1 billion ¡ª was in 1957, the year after Congress authorized the Interstate Highway System, which fostered sprawling suburban development and accompanied a national explosion of car ownership.

The Bay Area followed the national trend, with commuter rail and BART seeing some of the largest increases in ridership while area bus systems more gradually recovered from the dot-com economic recession that started six years ago.

¡°As gas prices have spiked, we have seen people all across the country turning to public transportation in record numbers,¡± said Virginia Miller, spokeswoman for the association. ¡°What that¡¯s saying is if you¡¯re going to have a world-class transportation system, you¡¯re going to need more than one mode of transportation.¡±

While the Bay Area has maintained one of the nation¡¯s better public transit networks for several decades, the growth in public transportation has even reached places that seemed in the steel grip of the automobile, Miller said.

¡°Now the western and southwestern cities, like Phoenix, Dallas, Houston and L.A., have good public transportation systems, and the public wants them to grow,¡± Miller said.

The Bay Area Rapid Transit system is seeing record ridership, with records falling nearly every month. This month, Saturday ridership hit an all-time high as riders rang in the Chinese New Year on March 3.

In 2006, riders passed through BART exit gates 98.9 million times, a 4 percent increase over 2005.

¡°With the jobs coming back to the Bay Area, as long as tolls and gas are high, and when BART still remains at 22 cents a mile and driving costs 69 cents a mile, then BART is going to be an attractive option for folks who want to save money getting to their job,¡± said BART spokesman Linton Johnson.

Riders from Santa Clara and San Mateo counties also flocked to Caltrain in record numbers last year, said Jonah Weinberg, spokesman for the San Mateo County Transportation Authority, which operates the Gilroy-to-San Francisco commuter rail service. From the start of the current fiscal year in July through January, there were 5.9 million train rides, compared to 5.4 million during the same period a year earlier.

Bus ridership wasn¡¯t quite as robust as train ridership, growing a little more than 2 percent to 6 billion rides nationwide, while heavy (like BART) and light rail service expanded 4 percent and nearly 6 percent, respectively, according to association figures.

At San Mateo¡¯s SamTrans, ridership is just barely recovering from the dot-com downturn, with average weekday ridership rising 1 percent for the last half of 2006 over the same period in 2005, Weinberg said.

¡°A lot of people who might have used SamTrans before now have the option of taking Caltrans,¡± Weinberg said, adding, ¡°There are also many jobs that disappeared in 2001 that haven¡¯t come back.¡±

The improving economy also points to how dependent public transit is on public funding. While dwindling jobs lower the total number of commuters, starving sales tax coffers also cut back on the amount of transit service local governments are able to pay for, said Chuck Purvis, a statistician for the Metropolitan Transportation Commission. Resurgent sales tax receipts are now pumping more money into the area¡¯s transit system and increasing service, he added.