Two of the world¡¯s oldest fruit suppliers are joining forces via a $1.1bn (660m) all-share merger to create the biggest banana business on the planet.

North Carolina-based Chiquita Brands and Dublin-headquartered Fyffes said they were creating a fresh produce company employing 32,000 people in more than 70 countries, with $4.6bn of annual sales.

The enlarged group, 50.7pc-owned by Chiquita shareholders and 49.3pc by Fyffes, will sell more than 160m boxes of bananas a year as well as having significant clout in the world of melons, pineapples and packaged salads.

The new group aims, it said, to capitalise on ¡°the growing fresh food business and health and wellness trends by more effectively utilising its geographical footprint and expanded distribution channels¡±.

¡°This is a milestone transaction for Chiquita and Fyffes,¡± said Ed Lonergan, Chiquita¡¯s chief executive, who will chair the new ChiquitaFyffes business. It will be listed on the New York stock exchange and domiciled in Ireland.

News of the deal sent shares in Fyffes rocketing 40 cents to 1.29 in Dublin, its highest level since 2000, with the transaction valuing the company at 1.22 a share, a 38pc premium to Friday¡¯s closing price.

Shares in Chiquita also jumped, rising more than 12pc to $12.15, as the market warmed to a mooted $40m of annual synergies by the end of 2016, not from job cuts but savings on shipping, packaging and procurement.

The merger combines two groups steeped in history. Fyffes dates back to the 1880s when EW Fyffe Son & Co took its first delivery of bananas from the Canary Islands.

Its more recent history has seen the involvement of three generations of the family of executive chairman David McCann, who will become chief executive of the combined group.

His grandfather, Charles McCann, started a green grocer¡¯s shop in Dundalk in the early 1900s, becoming the first agent for Fyffes bananas in Ireland. His son, Neil McCann, subsequently built the fruit import business that acquired Fyffes in 1986.

Hailing the deal as ¡°transformative¡±, David McCann said the ¡°larger, more diverse business¡± offered more ¡°opportunities for growth¡±. Balkan Investment Company, the vehicle for the McCann family¡¯s 12.5pc stake, has given irrevocable undertakings to vote for the deal.

Another Fyffes investor, the Jerry Zucker Revocable Trust with 13.1pc of the shares, is also expected to back the merger.

Chiquita started importing fruit more than 140 years ago, when Captain Lorenzo Dow Barker bought 160 bunches of bananas in Jamaica, sailed to Jersey City in 11 days and sold them for a profit.

One potential banana skin remains in the shape of the competition authorities as only four companies ¨C Chiquita, Fyffes, Dole and Fresh Del Monte Produce ¨C control more than 80pc of the global banana trade.