
 What Is an Adjustable-Rate Mortgage? Fixed-rate mortgages are easy to understand. Your interest rate and monthly payment stay the same throughout the life of your loan. Adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) are different. 

 ARMs have interest rates that adjust over time. Typically, the starting rate remains fixed for a set number of years, such as three, five, or even as much as 10 years. After that fixed period ends, the rate changes periodically, typically on an annual basis. Note: The first scheduled adjustment ¡ª after the initial fixed-rate period ends ¡ª could increase your monthly mortgage payments. 

 ARMs can be a popular mortgage choice when interest rates are high. And if you only plan to stay in your home for a few years, they can be an option worth considering as long as you sell your home before the rate changes. Click here to learn more.
 How can I get pre-qualified? Contact us to get started with your mortgage pre-qualification. We'll get some preliminary information from you, review it and determine whether you might qualify for a loan. Once you get your mortgage pre-qualification, you'll know how much you could borrow and can look for a new home with confidence. Sellers will also feel more comfortable knowing that they have a serious buyer.
 How fast will I get my money? This is one of the most important mortgage questions. When you're buying a home, the funds are available on the day you close your loan. On a refinance, funds are normally disbursed on the fourth business day after you sign your loan documents. This is because federal regulations require a three-day rescission period, during which you have the right to cancel your loan outright.
 What is pre-paid interest? When you make your mortgage payment on the first of the month, you are actually paying for interest charges that accumulated during the previous month (also called "paying in arrears"). For example, a mortgage payment due on August 1 would cover the interest charged from July 1 to July 31. As the name indicates, "pre-paid" interest is paid in advance. It is the per diem interest charges that begin accumulating on the day your loan is closed until the end of the month in which the closing occurred.



 So, for example, if your loan closed on June 15, the pre-paid interest would be calculated based on the number of days left in the month of June, or 15 days (June 16 through June 30). Using this same scenario, your first monthly mortgage payment would be due on August 1. The August 1 payment would cover interest charges that occurred between July 1 and July 31 (covering the days after the pre-paid interest period ended).
 What amounts are included in my monthly payments? Principal & Interest

 With most mortgages, your monthly mortgage payment will include amounts that go toward loan principal and interest. For an interest-only mortgage, monthly payments will include only the interest that is due on the outstanding principal balance, until the interest-only period ends.

 Mortgage Insurance (MI)

 If your home loan requires mortgage insurance, such as private mortgage insurance or PMI, your monthly payment will usually include a mortgage insurance premium.

 Real Estate Taxes and Insurance

 Your monthly payment may include a portion to cover real estate taxes, homeowners insurance and, if applicable, flood insurance. This money will be held in an escrow account , and we'll pay your real estate tax and insurance bills on your behalf when they are due. Remember, no matter the type of mortgage you have, you can always make additional payments toward principal without a penalty. That will help you pay off your loan more quickly.
 What is LTV and why does it matter? LTV stands for loan-to-value. It's used to determine how much you are eligible to borrow and whether mortgage insurance, such as PMI, will be required. It's also one of the factors used in determining your interest rate.

It equals:

The total dollar amount of mortgages on your property

Divided by

The property's fair market value.

When you're buying a house, the fair market value will be the lower of purchase price or the estimated market value as established by the appraisal.
 How do I find out my home's value? There are many sources online that can tell you what other homes in the neighborhood are selling for and you can usually check with the local tax authority to find out what the last tax assessment was for the property. However, we will verify the value of the home during loan processing by ordering an appraisal during the application phase of the mortgage process.
 What will my rate be? There are many factors that impact what interest rate you will be offered ¨C from daily changes in the market to individual qualifications. There's no way to say what your exact interest rate will be until your application is completed, but we will give you our best estimate based on preliminary factors. Your final interest rate will be influenced by where the market is when you apply as well as factors such as the loan purpose (purchase or refinance), your credit history (FICO score), the value of your home and the loan amount, to name a few.
 What is an escrow account and how does it work? An escrow account ensures your real estate tax and insurance bills are paid in full and on time, without you having to save large amounts of money and keep track of due dates. An escrow account is a separate account that your lender sets up to hold the money it collects each month for your real estate taxes, homeowner's insurance premiums, and if applicable, flood insurance and/or mortgage insurance. The lender takes your estimated annual real estate taxes and insurance premium expenses and divides that amount by 12. This amount is added to your monthly mortgage payment.

Your real estate and insurance bills are sent directly to the lender and they are paid on your behalf with the escrowed funds.
 Am I required to have an escrow account on my loan? That depends on factors such as the loan program you choose and the amount of down payment you make. When you apply for your loan, we will let you know whether or not an escrow account will be required. If it is, we'll give you an estimate of the monthly escrow payments you will need to make.