Bananas from Costa Rica are seen for sale at the Eastern Market in Washington, DC on February 25, 2014

US-based Chiquita Brands and Ireland's Fyffes Plc said Monday that they are merging, a deal that would create the world's biggest banana supplier with annual revenue of $4.6 billion.

In the stock-for-stock transaction Chiquita shareholders will own approximately 50.7 percent of the new company, named ChiquitaFyffes Plc, and Fyffes shareholders owning the remainder, the companies announced in a joint statement.

The combined company will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and based in Ireland. The Chiquita and Fyffes brands will also continue, the statement read.

The agreement "creates a global banana and other fresh produce company with approximately $4.6 billion in annual revenues."

Chiquita is one of the top global marketer and distributors of fresh food products, including bananas and packaged salads. Fyffes, though not quite as big, is also a major global player.

"This is a natural strategic partnership that combines two complementary companies of long history," said Chiquita chief executive Ed Lonergan.

As well as bananas, the new company will have a "significant presence" in the sale of packaged salads, melons and pineapples.

Chiquita, Dole Food and Fresh Del Monte Produce -- controlled about two-thirds of the global banana market, according to 2007 UN figures.

Fyffes and Ecuador's Exportadora Bananera Noboa rounded off the list of top five banana companies, according to the figures.

The merged ChiquitaFyffes will have an operating presence in more than 70 countries and a workforce of some 32,000 people.

"Chiquita and Fyffes anticipate that the transaction will potentially provide annualized recurring before tax overhead and operational synergies of at least $40 million by the end of 2016," said the statement, adding that the transaction is expected to be complete this year.

Lonergan will serve as chairman, while Fyffes executive chairman David McCann will become the combined company's chief executive officer.

McCann described the deal as "transformative".

"We believe we will be able to use our joint expertise, complementary assets and geographic coverage to develop a business that can run smoothly and efficiently to better partner with our customers and suppliers," he said.

Patrick Higgins, an analyst at Goodbody said the debt of the merged company would be at a more manageable level.

Chiquita posted a loss of $16 million for 2013, a sharp improvement after losing $405 million in 2012.

Fyffes however announced preliminary results for 2013 showing a profit of 26.1 million euros ($34.87 million), up 9.8 percent, while sales rose 6.3 percent to 1.08 billion euros.

According to figures from the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), as of 80 percent of all bananas come from Latin America, with Ecuador Costa Rica and Colombia as the main exporters.