The Deputy Governor of the Bank of England has outlined the challenges still faced by the recovering UK economy during a visit to the region.

Charlie Bean was addressing the bosses of around 170 of the region¡¯s largest businesses at the North East Chamber of Commerce¡¯s President¡¯s Club, held at Rockliffe Hall in County Durham.

Bean, a Professor of Economics who has lectured at the London School of Economics and has been a visiting Professor at Stanford University, spoke to the business leaders about what needs to happen if the recovery is to be sustained ¨C and how the Bank¡¯s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is supporting it.

He said: ¡°Much of the recovery has been on the back of higher consumer spending and housing investment.

¡°For the recovery to be both sustained and sustainable, however, we really want to see three things happen: business investment needs to pick up, a revival in productivity growth and an expansion in net exports.¡±

¡°It is now five years since we cut bank rate to its historic low of 0.5% and launched our asset purchase programme. Those five years have been tough for both businesses and households. But they surely would have been even tougher had we not taken that action.

¡°The MPC will be doing its utmost to ensure that recovery is not nipped in the bud.

¡°But when the time does come for us to start raising bank rate, we should celebrate that as a welcome sign that the economy is finally well on the road back to normality.¡±

Bean has served in a variety of public policy roles, including as consultant to HM Treasury and as a special adviser to both the Treasury Committee of the House of Commons and to the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee of the European Parliament. His comments were welcomed by the NECC¡¯s president Dave Laws.

Laws, said: ¡°I was delighted to welcome Charlie Bean to the region. We have seen via NECC¡¯s Quarterly Economic Survey and the Government¡¯s GVA statistics that the recovery is well underway in the North East, and the positivity of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of England¡¯s speech seemed to rubber stamp that.

¡°Charlie¡¯s speech also delivered an important message to businesses and that is that while things are getting better, but we must continue to work hard if we are to secure sustained economic recovery.¡±

NECC President¡¯s Club represents firms and organisations from sectors including services, manufacturing and professional, to local authorities, housing groups and the public sector, and its members employ around 25% of the region¡¯s workforce.