WASHINGTON, February 4, 2014 /PRNewswire/ ¡ª Today Enroll America partnered with the Ad Council to launch ¡°Take Care, People,¡± a national multimedia public service advertising (PSA) campaign that will raise awareness, educate, and motivate uninsured Americans to get health insurance for themselves and their families under the Affordable Care Act, or ACA.

Created pro bono by La Comunidad and Razorfish, the PSAs use pets as the unlikely spokespeople to break through the clutter with an action-oriented message: It¡¯s time for people to take care of themselves. Pets, including dogs, cats, birds and fish, encourage their people to enroll in health insurance for themselves and their families.

The campaign focuses on reaching uninsured young women ages 18-34. Research shows many of these young women lack awareness of the new options for insurance, are interested in learning more, and are more likely than men to do research, enroll, encourage others, and spread the word. According to research commissioned by Enroll America, 81 percent of uninsured are unaware of the March 31 deadline to enroll in coverage, and 69 percent don¡¯t know that financial assistance is available to help pay for their plan. As approximately one in four Hispanics are uninsured, the campaign will target Hispanic women and is being communicated in English and Spanish.

¡°Thanks in part to the hard work of our staff, volunteers, and partners, more than nine million Americans now have health insurance through the new Health Insurance Marketplace or Medicaid ¨C but we know that tens of millions more could benefit from these new options as well,¡± said Anne Filipic, President of Enroll America. ¡°That¡¯s why we¡¯re thrilled to partner with the Ad Council on this new PSA campaign; whether on the airwaves or at the grassroots, our goal is to reach as many consumers as possible with the information they need to get covered before March 31.¡±

There are 41 million Americans, or about one in six without health insurance, according to Enroll America and approximately one in four Hispanics and close to one in five African Americans are uninsured. This exposes them and their families to significant financial risks in cases of medical issues, accidents, and emergencies. Most are uninsured because their employer does not offer insurance or they can¡¯t afford coverage.

Through the end of March 2014, open enrollment is taking place with new health insurance options available under the ACA. The campaign will communicate the benefits of enrolling in health coverage made available under the ACA, including: that health insurance is affordable, preventive care is free, and financial help is available to help the uninsured pay for their health insurance plan. The campaign will also communicate that no one can be denied coverage because they are sick or have a pre-existing condition and that all plans cover doctor visits, hospitalizations, maternity care, prescriptions and more.

The initiative drives traffic to GetCoveredAmerica.org, where individuals can learn how to enroll, get answers to common questions, determine the estimated monthly cost of insurance using the Get Covered Calculator, view short videos explaining the Affordable Care Act, review a glossary of insurance terms, find someone who will help them to enroll, and more. The campaign relays that experts are on hand, by phone, online or in-person, to help the uninsured find a plan that¡¯s right for them. Enroll America¡¯s more than 250 employees, and more than 164,000 volunteers, will be available to follow up with consumers who need additional information or assistance. Grassroots activities include outreach sessions at locations such as churches, schools, and libraries, large-scale enrollment events, phone-banking and consumer outreach. Users should visitwww.GetCoveredAmerica.org/events to find an event near them.

¡°With the significant lack of awareness about the new insurance options available to Americans, there is a great need for a national public education campaign,¡± said Peggy Conlon, president and CEO of the Ad Council. ¡°We have an integrated approach that will raise awareness and connect audiences to resources that will help them through the process. In taking the perspective of pets talking to people, the creative becomes memorable and engaging and many of our media partners have already committed to supporting it.¡±

¡°We needed a familiar face that would stand out amidst all the noise to communicate to all Americans the benefits of enrolling for health insurance in a way that¡¯s entertaining, relatable and easy to digest,¡± La Comunidad Creative Director Rodrigo Butori explains. ¡°We thought about pets. Why? Two thirds of American homes have pets. They have been the recipient of people¡¯s love and care for ages. So it¡¯s time for them to return the favor. It¡¯s time for pets to take care of people for a change.¡±

Multimedia public service ads will be distributed by the Ad Council this week to more than 33,000 media outlets nationwide. They will appear on television and radio and in newspapers, magazines, out of home, standard and mobile web banners. Per the Ad Council¡¯s model, all the PSAs will run in advertising time and space donated by the media. Media commitments to support the PSAs have been secured by GroupM/Mindshare, including national cable television networks, national Spanish-language television networks, cinema vendors, national and syndicated radio stations, national consumer, health and women¡¯s magazines, outdoor companies and digital and mobile sites and networks. Clear Channel and Branded Cities are also donating digital display boards for the PSAs in Times Square throughout February and March to coincide with the enrollment period. On average, Ad Council campaigns receive more than $30 million in time and space donated by media outlets annually. Google has worked closely with the campaign team and agencies through strategic and creative development, and they have donated services to the campaign, which can be utilized for future phases of the program.

¡°Mindshare is proud to be working with the Ad Council on this noble effort,¡± said Colin Kinsella, CEO, Mindshare, North America. ¡°We are also very grateful for and heartened by all the vendors that have graciously donated time and space to encourage young Americans to enroll in the program.¡±

¡°It would be an enormous understatement to say we¡¯re honored to have played a role in the development of a campaign intended to encourage people to prioritize their wellness,¡± said Shannon Denton, CEO of Razorfish North America. "Creating an experience that further educates the uninsured was crucial. We¡¯re confident this campaign will ensure all Americans receive the coverage they deserve.¡±

The campaign will air and run throughout the year, directing audiences towww.getcoveredamerica.org. The site¡¯s content is also shareable via Facebook and Twitter at Facebook/GetCoveredAmerica and Twitter.com/GetCoveredUS.

¡°This was a huge effort that we believe will pay off by talking about enrollment in an unexpected, optimistic and relatable way,¡± added Jos¨¦ Moll¨¢, Co-Founder and Co-Chief Creative Officer of La Comunidad