Bond yields are in the spotlight for Tuesday, and it doesn¡¯t look like that market took the long holiday weekend to calm down as the 10-year TMUBMUSD10Y, -0.83% cruises to fresh 2011 highs.

Our call of the day hammers away at the theme that has been rattling investors in recent days. It comes from Sean Darby and a team of strategists at Jefferies, who offer a strategy for finding companies and sectors that can hang tough if global bond yields go dog-on-bone higher.

¡°Ultimately, companies with either high FCF (free cash flow) yield, net cash and/or positive earnings revisions will be able to live with long-term rates,¡± says Darby and the team, in a note. ¡°Companies simply offering a dividend with no growth will fare poorly, in our view.¡±

As stocks are long-duration assets, the move in Treasury yields could mean pressure for ¡°overvaluation¡± pockets within the S&P 500, they explain. While long-term rates are sitting just above 0%, a move above 1% would mean a ¡°challenging¡± environment for equities.

Read: It¡¯s the surge in ¡®real yields¡¯ that could spell danger for stocks as bond markets swoon

They like the tech sector, which is generally viewed as cyclical, and offers up companies with high FCF yield, decent payout ratios and positive earnings revisions. One big name on their list is Apple, AAPL, +0.94% along with IBM IBM, +0.92% Oracle ORCL, +0.10% and Cisco CSCO, -0.74% :

Here¡¯s another chart from Jefferies, that stacks up where different sectors are sitting now with regards to free cash flow and dividend yields:

Some investors might be inclined to shy away from techs right now. The recent spate of rising bond yields, which make riskier assets such as stocks less attractive, has so far been toughest on the highflying sector, but the Nasdaq is still well ahead of the pack with a 12% gain this year. Some would even call it the healthy rotation that refreshes.

By the way, Tuesday marks the ¡°11 year anniversary of the top of the bull market that preceded the last crash, when the DOW hit a closing high of 14,165,¡± as James Hughes, chief market analyst at AXI Trader, reminds us. ¡°At the time those were seen as dizzying levels, but the fact is we¡¯re at almost twice that level just over a decade later.¡±

Opinion: Oct. 9¡ªthe day one bear market began, and another ended

The Dow DJIA, -0.50% S&P SPX, -0.55% and Nasdaq COMP, -0.42% are in the red at the start of trading.

Gold US:GCU8 is barely up, while crude US:CLU8 is rising on reports of a fall in oil supply out of Iran, while Hurricane Michael hangs in the backdrop. The dollar DXY, -0.10% keeps marching higher.

Check out the Market Snapshot column for the latest action.

Europe SXXP, -1.58% turned lower, while China stocks SHCOMP, -2.26% had a mild rebound after Monday¡¯s rout.

Read: Here¡¯s why investors remain uneasy about Italy¡¯s banks and the ¡®doom loop¡¯

Is the gold to oil ratio, or GOR, which tracks the price of gold over the price of oil, offering a clue as to where equities are headed? Our chart of the day comes from strategists Barry Bannister and Thomas Carroll at Stifel, who say that ratio is indicating ¡°peak reflation optimism,¡± and they are wondering if a deflation shock is around the corner.

¡°Since the global debt boom began about 20 years ago, a low GOR signals peak optimism,¡± said the strategists, in a note to clients. GOR has now fallen to a level that signals ¡°maximum reflation optimism,¡± circled red on their chart below:

¡°As shown, GOR has been falling since Jan-2016, part of reflation/risk-on, but from this point forward either oil spikes (Iran/Venezuela/Iraq) and GOR falls further in what can only be termed a ¡°bad way¡± (reminiscent of summer 1990) or oil drops (weak demand, EM slows, dollar rises), which would cut S&P 500 EPS. Neither outcome would be good for equities,¡± says the Stifel team.

Putting him at loggerheads with oil companies and environmentalists, President Donald Trump plans to announce a plan to allow year-round sales of gas with more ethanol. A NYT op/ed has come out swinging over that.

Shares of Papa John¡¯s PZZA, -0.44% jumped after reports Trian hedge fund is considering a takeover of the pizza chain.

Biotech drug developer Affirmed AFMD, +1.59% has been hit by news it is putting two cancer-drug studies on hold after the death of a participant. PPG Industries PPG, -1.01% is slumping after warning of flat third-quarter sales. Tesla is up after a bullish call from Macquarie.

Read: Big banks to kick off earnings season this week, but reports may not boost their stocks

Alphabet¡¯s Google GOOGL, +0.32% has yanked its bid for a huge Pentagon cloud-computing contract, saying it raised problems with its AI ¡°principles.¡±

The IMF has cut its global economic growth outlook for the next two years, citing weakness in developed countries, trade tensions and higher oil prices. In the U.S., it sees growth buoyant until 2020,oh when tax cuts run their course.

¡°Making decisions tomorrow might be too late.¡±¡ªThat was Florida Gov. Rick Scott warning residents to get out of the way of Hurricane Michael, as he declared emergencies for 35 counties. Parts of parts of Alabama are also under watch from the storm that has already killed 13 in Central America.

Oil and natural-gas operators have been busy taking production off line for the hurricane that is expected to hit Florida on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning.

A small-business sentiment survey pulled back from a 45-year high. Investors will hear from a bunch of Fed speakers, including Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan, Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, Philly Fed President Patrick Harker and New York Fed president John Williams.

POTUS says welcome and sorry to new Supreme Court judge Brett Kavanaugh

FireEye says North Korean hackers tried to steal $1.1 billion in a global bank hack

Second suspect in U.K. poisoning of former Russian spy and his daughter is a military doctor from the same country, says website

A can of fresh New Zealand air will set you back $65.

Need to Know starts early and is updated until the opening bell, but sign up here to get it delivered once to your email box. Be sure to check the Need to Know item. The emailed version will be sent out at about 7:30 a.m. Eastern.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.