BANGALORE: Mercedes-Benz India announced the local production of the new S-Class from its manufacturing facility in Chakan, Pune. In line with the company's 'Year of Excellence' strategy, the move to produce the S-Class in India "will help cater to the increasing demand for the best-known Three Pointed Star in the country," said Mercedes-Benz India. The new S-Class has a waiting period of approximately 3 months and has an ex-showroom Mumbai price tag of Rs 1.36 crore.

"Quality has all along been the strength of Mercedes-Benz India, and the new S 500 production in India is set to take this success story even further. This also reiterates our commitment to bring world class manufacturing facilities in India to support our growth in the luxury automotive business," said Eberhard Kern, Managing Director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India.

With this Mercedes-Benz India product portfolio comprises of the locally produced S-Class, E-Class, C-Class, GL-Class and the M-Class. The company's 'completely built' imported cars include the A-Class, CLS-Class, SLK-Class and the luxury tourer B-Class etc. The product portfolio also comprises the iconic off-roader G 63 AMG as well as a wide range of other AMG performance cars like the C 63 AMG, E 63 AMG, SLK 55 AMG among others."The S-Class has always set newer standards that have retained its accolade as 'the best automobile in the world' with each generation. It truly embodies our DNA and aspiration of 'the best or nothing' in every aspect. No other car stands for Mercedes-Benz brand promise more than the S-Class," added Kern.The new S-class offers a hot stone massage function with six different programs ranging from relaxing and stimulating to an energizing effect. Occupants can choose from two intensities - low and high and the seat backrest comes with a massage mat with 14 air chambers, which can be inflated or deflated, via fast responding solenoid valves, developing a wave-like massage effect. The massage function can be operated via remote with durations ranging from 12 - 15 minutes.Further, Mercedes-Benz is offering a chauffeur training program for the S-Class. This would involve a comprehensive training for chauffeurs on the S-Class technology and lifestyle features so that they can offer complete luxury driving experience to the S-Class owners