Candy Crush Saga is just as sweet as the delicious treats it features, and twice as a addictive. What started out as a basic Bejeweled clone that you could play right in your web browser now vies for your attention, and your money, on the internet, Facebook, your tablet, and even on your phone.

Even though Candy Crush is totally free to play, it can actually turn into one of the most expensive habits you'll ever have. The developer, King, is able to support a free-to-play game like this by selling in-app purchases like extra lives and boosters.

If you want to climb all the way to the top of the leaderboards without spending a lot of cash, it's important to take advantage of all the Candy Crush cheats, tips, tricks, and advanced strategies available to you, and we've pulled them all together right here.

While there are some ways to cheat the system in Candy Crush, it's extremely important to note that services and programs that promise to hack your Candy Crush game, or give you free lives, boosters, gold, or anything else, are almost always scams.

Never download anything, or sign up for any service, from any source that you don't trust, even if it does promise to give you free lives or allow you to skip Candy Crush levels. Even if one of these services did work, King could ban your account if it was discovered, and you would lose all your hard work.

Candy Crush Saga gets punishingly difficult as you move higher and higher into the levels, and buying boosters can get extremely costly. If you want to make the most of your lives, or get some free lives in a pinch, we've pulled together some of the best Candy Crush tips and tricks to help you boost your scores.

Candy Crush is a match three game at its heart, which means you play by matching sets of at least three similar candies to destroy them and earn points. It's extremely easy to pick up, but Candy Crush Saga throws a lot of extra sweet stuff into the mix, so it's important to get the basics down if you want to beat the harder levels.

In addition to the basic idea of matching three candies, matching more than three candies in specific combinations does something pretty neat. Instead of totally destroying the candies, they leave behind one of three types of powerful special candies that can help get you out of some sticky situations

Special candies are great at helping clear tough levels, but you can combo them together to achieve even more powerful effects. One of the most important secrets to mastering Candy Crush is learning what each combination does so you can maneuver your special candies into place and unleash massive combos.

Color bombs are tremendously powerful, so it's important to always be on the look out for ways to make them. They aren't that tough to make, but they usually won't just fall in your lap.

Striped candies are the easiest ones to make, but they can still be extremely useful. You can also control the properties of a striped candy depending on how you create it, which makes it unique.

Note: The candies can be either horizontal or vertical. If you create a match in a horizontal line, the striped candy will have vertical lines. If you create a match in a vertical line, the candy will have horizontal lines. If you have trouble remembering that, think of it this way: the direction of the lines will match the direction you swiped your finger to create the match.

Wrapped candy can be tough to make, because you need to look for specific patterns. These candies are made by matching five candies, like like color bombs, but they must be in either a T or L formation.

How to Cheat Time For Extra Lives in Candy Crush Saga

Candy Crush Saga only gives you five lives to work with. That means if you lose five times, you can't play anymore. You can buy extra lives, pay for unlimited lives for a limited amount of time, or even beg your friends for lives. But if you don't want to pay, and you've already asked for your friends, the only option is to put the game down and wait for some time to pass.

If you're playing on the Android or iOS version of Candy Crush Saga, you can cheat a little and fool the game into thinking time has passed when it really hasn't. This does involve changing the time on your phone, but you don't need to root, jailbreak, or even install anything.