
 Operating company: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
 Stations: The AirTrain connects the terminals with New York City Subway station Howard Beach (IND Rockaway Line) and Sutpin Boulevard (Archer Avenue Line).
 Flight distribution on the days of the week: , Monday (14.52%), Tuesday (14.22%)Wednesday (14.74%), Thursday (14.54%), Friday (14.35%), Saturday (12.96%), Sunday (14.67%)

is the most important airport in the metropolitan region of New York. It is located at the southern end of Queens. According to passenger numbers, aircraft movements and cargo handled, it is one of the top twenty airports in the world. The airport is managed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, who also manage the two airports, Newark Liberty International in New Jersey and LaGuardia in New York City.Other airports in remote areas of New York are located about 90 km ((55 miles) east of downtown Manhattan - Long Island MacArthur Airport in Islip; Westchester County Airport in White Plains about 37 miles northeast of downtown Manhattan; and about 70 miles north of downtown Manhattan, Stewart International Airport in Newburgh.

Most popular destinations from New York - John F. Kennedy International Airport, NY (Flights per week )

Location

 First in use in 1948, the airport is about 15 miles east of downtown Manhattan. To reach the airport use the Interstate I-678, New York State Route 27 and Shore Parkway.



Since 2003, AirTran JFK has served the airport on a regular basis. This links up all the terminals that are currently in use with the two subway station Howard Beach (Route A - IND Rockaway Line) and Sutpin Boulevard (Routes E, J und Z - Archer Avenue Line) as well as with Jamaica Station (Long Island Railroad LIRR). From Jamaica Station there is a fast city train to Penn Station which is about 18 km or 12 miles north west.



The airport is also served by several city buses such as the Q3, Q10, and B15.



Passengers transferring between John F. Kennedy and LaGuardia can use the New York Airport Express bus. Between John F. Kennedy and Newark, Go Airlink NYC also provide a regular shuttle bus services. There are also regular bus services to Midtown Manhattan, to Pennsylvania Station (several Amtrak routes and commuter trains) to Grand Central Terminal (commuter train) and the Port Authority Bus Terminal (Greyhound, NJ Transit, Peter Pan, Trans- Bridge etc.).



Otherwise, rental cars, taxis, shuttle vans, hotel buses and limousines are available.