Dick¡¯s Sporting Goods has sued Modell¡¯s Sporting Goods and its prominent fourth-generation CEO, Mitchell Modell, claiming Modell brazenly visited a Dick¡¯s retail location and impersonated a Dick¡¯s executive to unlawfully gain a competitive advantage.

Building off his 2012 acting performance on the CBS show ¡°Undercover Boss,¡± where he transformed into his alter ego, rank and file Modell¡¯s employee ¡°Joey Glick¡±¡ªcomplete with a shaved head, fake mustache and exaggerated New York accent¡ªMitchell Modell allegedly appeared at a Dick¡¯s store in Princeton, New Jersey in February and identified himself to the store manager as ¡°Joseph¡± (perhaps a derivation of Joey Glick?), a Dick¡¯s Senior Vice President. According to the suit, Modell told store management that he was there to meet with Edward Stack, Dick¡¯s Chairman and CEO, and while waiting for this supposed appointment, Modell requested and received access to the store¡¯s private back-room and obtained Dick¡¯s confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets.

The allegedly stolen information includes Dick¡¯s processes and procedures for inventory handling, the planned pricing and quantity of inventory in each store, key store-level metrics and other areas of focus such as overall customer satisfaction scores, the marketing of Dick¡¯s private label credit card program and add-on sales such as warranty programs, and the specific manner in which Dick¡¯s executes at the store level on its omni-channel initiatives such as its ¡°Ship from Store¡± online fulfillment program.

While it may be considered a good practice for retail executives to visit competitor stores, line to the unlawful. If true, Mitchell Modell impersonating a rival executive to gain access to non-public areas and proprietary information crosses the odell¡¯s actions are rather shocking, particularly given his very public persona (in addition to the ¡°Undercover Boss¡± appearance, Modell has appeared in the regional sporting goods giant¡¯s well-known ¡°Gotta Go To Mo¡¯s¡± ad campaign and many other public appearances). Did he not think he¡¯d be recognized?

So what lesson can businesses take away from Modell¡¯s misadventures (aside from, of course, don¡¯t impersonate a rival executive)? Since a key element in a trade secret case is the precautions taken to protect the secrecy of the information, businesses should ensure that they have policies in place restricting access to non-public areas (also a safety issue) and highly sensitive information, and managers and employees must receive training on these policies. By way of example, non-public areas should be locked, employees should be required to carry company-issued photo identification and, most relevant here, local level management should be required to confirm with headquarters any unannounced site visits. We don¡¯t know what protocols Dick¡¯s had in place to prevent a ¡°Joseph¡± from doing what he did, but at first blush it doesn¡¯t seem like Modell had a particularly difficult time talking his way into the Dick¡¯s store¡¯s non-public areas and accessing sensitive information. But in the spirit of Oscar season, perhaps we can ask whether more acting roles are in his future.