American Eagle Outfitters, Inc. (NYSE:AEO)¡¯s interesting series of developments are underway around the US stock market these days. Now trading with a market value of 3.71B, the company has a mix of catalysts and obstacles that spring from the nature of its operations. Everyone seems to have their own opinion of this stock. But what do the numbers really say? We think it¡¯s a great time to take a fresh look.

It¡¯s generally a good idea to start with the most fundamental piece of the picture: the balance sheet. The balance sheet health of any company plays a key role in its ability to meet its obligations and maintain the faith of its investment base. For AEO, the company currently has 363.32 million of cash on the books. The trend over time is important to note. In this case, the company¡¯s debt has been growing. The company also has 1.85 billion in total assets, balanced by 590.17 million in total liabilities, which should give you a sense of the viability of the company under any number of imagined business contexts.

American Eagle Outfitters, Inc. (AEO) saw 69.95 million in free cash flow last quarter, representing a quarterly net change in cash of 33.62 million. Perhaps most importantly where cash movements are concerned, the company saw about 124.41 million in net operating cash flow.

As far as key trends that demonstrate something of the future investment potential of this stock, we need to take a closer look at the top line, first and foremost. Last quarter, the company saw 964.85 million in total revenues. That represents a quarterly year/year change in revenues of 0.14 in sequential terms, the AEO saw sales decline by 0.17.

But what about the bottom line? After all, that¡¯s what really matters in the end. American Eagle Outfitters, Inc. (AEO) is intriguing when broken down to its core data. The cost of selling goods last quarter was 654.49 million, yielding a gross basic income of 310.36 million. For shareholders, given the total diluted outstanding shares of 178.51 million, this means overall earnings per share of 0.34. Note, this compares with a consensus analyst forecast of 0.46 in earnings per share for its next fiscal quarterly report.

Looking ahead at valuations, according to the consensus, the next fiscal year is forecast to bring about 1.65 in total earnings per share. If we consider a median price to earnings ratio on the stock, that corresponds with a stock price of 13.09. However, one should always remember: the trends are more important than the forecasts. This continues to be an interesting story, and we look forward to updating it again soon on American Eagle Outfitters, Inc..