RALEIGH, N.C. (WNCN) - Just a week before Christmas and temperatures are feel more like spring in North Carolina and they're about to get even warmer. Highs by Tuesday will be in the 70s across central North Carolina, but it won't last long as much colder temperatures and wet weather arrive Wednesday.

It was just last week that we had wind chill temperatures in the teens last week in the morning, now we're heading for 70s Tuesday. Monday was warm as well with highs in the 60s. The Triangle made it up to 61 Monday while Fayetteville made it to 69. The normal high this time of year is 53.

While Tuesday will be warmer, it could also start off with some dense fog. By afternoon, sunshine and southerly winds will help warm us into the 70s.

Our next weather maker will be a low pressure system that will move to central North Carolina from the Gulf Coast on Wednesday. A good chance of rain will accompany that system, but thunderstorms are unlikely.

Behind that system, it will be cooler on Thursday but dry. Thursday is the first official day of winter -- the winter solstice is 11:28 a.m. Friday will be partly sunny with a slight risk of a shower.

A strong, but slow moving cold front will stay just to our west over the upcoming weekend. That means central North Carolina will be on the mild side of the system, but a few showers will be possible each day. That front might stay to our west on Monday, Christmas Day. So, if that front stays west, it will remain above normal for temperatures, with just a small chance of rain on Christmas. The long-range data is still muddled though, so stay plugged into the forecast for potential changes this week.

Monday Night will be mostly clear. The overnight low will be 44 with some fog possible by morning. Winds will be light out of the west.

Tuesday will be partly sunny and mild. The high will be 70; winds will be southwest 5 to 10 mph.

Wednesday will be mostly cloudy rain showers likely. The high will be 54; after a morning low of 49. The rain risk will be 80 percent.

Thursday will be clearing and cooler. The high will be 52; after a morning low of 38.

Friday will be partly sunny with a slight risk of a shower. The high will be 57; after a morning low 38. The rain risk will be 20 percent.

Saturday will be mostly cloudy with spotty showers. The high will be 65; after a morning low of 50. The rain risk will be 30 percent.

Next Sunday, Christmas Eve will be mostly cloudy with spotty showers still possible. The high will be 62; after a morning low of 50. The rain risk will be 30 percent.

This forecast was prepared by the CBS North Carolina weather team and is based on the latest information available and years of weather forecasting in North Carolina. It was not produced by a computer like many forecasts you find on the web, social media and smart phone apps.