Remarkably, though paying with your mobile phone has been possible for years at Starbucks, tipping with it hasn¡¯t. The coffee giant is finally rectifying that, with an update to its mobile payment service that includes the ability to add a tip; it will roll out on iPhones in the US next week.

The change, says Linda Mills, a company spokeswoman, will apply to Starbucks¡¯ own mobile app, which lets customers pay using the balance on a Starbucks loyalty card, but not to the wallet app from online-payments firm Square, which handles credit and debit-card payments for various retailers, Starbucks among them.

In some ways, the tipping feature will work like it does on other payment services, like Square: Users will be prompted to tip either nothing, $0.50, $1, or $2, at the push of a button. But Starbucks is also doing things a bit differently. Rather than prompting for a tip when you pay, it will instead nudge you with a mobile notification after the fact. ¡°Once you leave, you¡¯ll receive a push notification¡ªor not, if you¡¯ve already disabled that feature,¡± company spokeswoman Linda Mills told Quartz. There¡¯ll be a two-hour window for adding a tip to the transaction. (Square Wallet already offers a similar window at other retailers.)

This dodges some of the manipulative subtleties inherent in many other services¡ªnamely, it doesn¡¯t guilt customers into tipping in front of a server or cashier. That could make tipping more merit-based. It also helps speed things up; customers won¡¯t linger at the counter while contemplating whether to tip or not to tip.

If there¡¯s any worry, it¡¯s that this could lead to a drop-off in tipping. Customers will be able to put off forking over an extra dollar or two until the two-hour window is up, and it¡¯s no longer an option.

Unlike many restaurants, however Starbucks pays its employees more than the minimum wage, which means they aren¡¯t as dependent on tips. That gives Starbucks the leeway to experiment. ¡°This is new for us. It will be interesting to see how customers respond,¡± Mills said. And Starbucks will, at the very least, have a hefty sample size to cull from. More than 10 million people use its mobile app, which accounts for over 11% of its weekly transactions.