Urban Outfitters¡® (NASDAQ:URBN) Q4 fiscal 2014 revenues increased by 6% to $906 million, but missed expectations of $926 million. While the retailer recorded strong sales growth for its Anthropologie and Free People brand, its namesake business stumbled due to missed fashion calls and severe winters in the U.S. However, Urban Outfitters¡¯ Q4 earnings per share of $0.59 was better than the consensus estimate of $0.56.

In the current environment, U.S. retailers are struggling for growth due to weak consumer spending and fierce competition from fast fashion brands such as Forever 21 and H&M. Considering this, Urban Outfitters¡¯ 1% comparable sales growth looks quite impressive, which was driven by higher e-commerce revenues, average unit retail and units per transactions, partially offset by low store traffic. [ ]

Although the company¡¯s near term growth might be slow as it expects to continue facing challenges with the Urban Outfitters brand, long term outlook is promising. We believe that Urban Outfitters brand will perform better eventually, driven by its several initiatives. Meanwhile, the company has stated that customer response to its other brands, Anthropologie and Free People, has been very strong so far. This indicates that given the right product mix and marketing, these brands can propel Urban Outfitters¡¯ long term growth.

Our price estimate for Urban Outfitters stands at $43, implying a premium of about 15% to the market price. However, we are in the process of updating our model in light of the recent earnings release.

See our complete analysis for Urban Outfitters Inc.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, Anthropologie registered 10% rise in retail comparable sales driven by its compelling product offerings and store shopping experience. The brand has improved its product mix and designs substantially over the last few quarters, which resulted in double-digit growth in its regular price comparable sales in Q4. Total markdown rate during the fourth quarter decreased by 20% as compared to the same quarter last year, which is very impressive considering that the holiday season of 2013 was more promotional than the holiday season of 2012. Since Anthropologie¡¯s updated theme of sensual and feminine looks has found tremendous acceptance among its customers, we believe the trend is likely to continue. To attract customers and enhance its appeal, the brand also creates engaging story telling techniques through its store windows, visual merchandising and display, along with catalog and email communications. This should assist the brand in driving store traffic going forward.

Apart from its core merchandise offerings, Anthropologie¡¯s new products have also performed very well. During Q4, the brand continued to expand its boutique assortments and it now offers this category in seven Anthropologie stores. Boutique assortment sales increased by 303% in the fourth quarter and the brand plans to expand this category to twelve additional stores in fiscal 2015. [ ] This move adds a new category to the Anthropologie portfolio, which can make a material contribution in the future.

Urban Outfitters¡¯ Free People brand has grown at a robust pace over the past few years, which continued in fiscal 2014 as well. The brand¡¯s revenues in fiscal 2014 increased by almost 30% and its comparable sales during the fourth quarter surged by 20%. Moreover, Free People¡¯s international and domestic shop-in-shop expansion resulted in 24% rise in wholesale revenues. Alongside, the brand continued the expansion of its intimate category, where retail sales grew twice as fast as apparel sales. Sales penetration of intimates in wholesale revenues increased by as much as 320 basis points. This indicates that even though U.S. buyers have been reluctant to spend on apparel, they have shown great affinity towards intimate products. Victoria¡¯s Secret¡¯s recent success in the U.S. further confirms this trend. Free People¡¯s footwear category also registered a strong rise of 54% in retail revenues, suggesting that buyers have developed a liking for the brand.

Overall, Free People turned out to be the most productive brand for Urban Outfitters in terms of revenue per square foot in fiscal 2014. Although the brand does not contribute much to the retailer¡¯s revenues at present, it can become a big business in the future if it sustains its healthy growth rate.

Urban Outfitters Can Improve In The Long Run

Urban Outfitters¡¯ namesake brand¡¯s comparable sales declined by 9% during the quarter mainly due to weak response to its fashion and partially on account of adverse weather conditions (450 basis points contribution). The management stated that poor product execution and lack of creativity resulted in the brand¡¯s dismal performance. Although it is unlikely that Urban Outfitters will see a complete turnaround in the first quarter, it will improve eventually as the company is prioritizing the brand¡¯s revival in fiscal 2015. [ ]

Urban Outfitters is elevating its creative functions and restructuring new procedures and communication, into a more central role in order to reconnect with its core customers. During the quarter, Urban Outfitters introduced a new concept named ¡°Without Walls¡±, which aims to attract young customers with active lifestyle products, placed in an enthralling environment. The concept was recently launched in five stores, where it received tremendous customer response. The retailer is now planning to open three to six such store-in-store locations in fiscal 2015. [ ]

Additionally, the company made significant strides towards the improvement of its supply chain system during the year, which should assist Urban Outfitters¡¯ revival. The retailer lowered its weeks of supply by one week and reduced its lead times by more than 10%. This should help it better adjust to the changing customer preferences. It also reduced direct-to-consumer orders fulfilling time by 30% and shipping time by over 15%, to improve the customer service. We believe that these efforts along with an improvement in design should help the brand¡¯s steady recovery going forward.

See More at Trefis | View Interactive Institutional Research (Powered by Trefis)