* Spot yuan at 6.3137 at midday, down 107 pips from Friday

* More intraday volatility seen following wider trading band

* Some see harbinger of broader financial reforms to come

SHANGHAI, April 16 (Reuters) - The yuan traded lower at

midday on Monday, opening sharply weaker than the midpoint

fixing, after the central bank doubled the size of the

currency's trading band over the weekend.

By midday, however, the currency pared back most of its

early losses before recovering to 6.3137, down 107 pips from

Friday's close.

The yuan weakened in opening trades as some dealers had

anticipated a possible unleashing of depreciation pressure that

had been lurking since mid-March.

Spot yuan touched 6.3250 in the first hour of

trading - its weakest point since March 21 and down more than

0.3 percent from Friday's close.

Before trading began, the central bank set its daily

midpoint at 6.2960, weaker than Friday's fixing of

6.2879. The fixing followed the bank's normal pattern of setting

a weaker midpoint in response to a rise in the dollar index

 overnight.

The yuan has consistently traded weaker than the central

bank's midpoint since mid-March, leading some to anticipate

broader depreciation following the central bank's move giving

the yuan more freedom of movement.

The midpoint fixing is the base rate that the central bank

uses to flag the government's intentions for the yuan's value.

The People's Bank of China said on Saturday it would allow

the yuan to rise or fall 1 percent from its midpoint every day,

effective Monday, compared with its previous 0.5 percent limit.

The recent trend of the yuan trading weaker than the

midpoint is a result of dollar strength amid the euro crisis,

traders say.

"Recently, the euro is weakening, dollar index has been

consistently rising, people see the midpoint rising in response,

so it's normal for people to take a bit of a (long dollar)

position," said a trader at a joint stock bank in China.

He added that expectations of the currency's movement would

now be based more on signals from the market rather than

expectations about central bank policy.

The immediate impact on the market's daily operations is

likely to be limited. The yuan has not hit the boundaries of the

previous 0.5 percent trading band at all in 2012.

Daily movements have been mostly confined to a range of 100

to 200 pips, or about 0.2 to 0.3 percent, on the China Foreign

Exchange Trading System (CFETS), the China's main onshore forex

trading platform.

But volatility is likely to increase gradually. Traders

expect that the PBOC's widening of the band will mean the

currency eventually moves more than 200 pips a day, possibly

even 400 pips on occasions, over the next 12 months.

"Market movements will become sharper. It also shows the

central bank's attitude - they will not try to control market

volatility. We will live or die by our own skill," said a trader

at a European bank in Shanghai.

The widening, which was widely expected, has also not

altered market expectations of a gradual yuan appreciation of

around 2 to 3 percent this year, traders said.

Though the immediate impact will be limited, some analysts

also saw the move as a signal of further pro-market reforms in

the pipeline.

"This move also implies that Beijing sees now as the right

time for pushing forward some key financial reforms," Qu

Hongbin, co-Head of Asian Economics Research for HSBC.

"Chief among the financial reforms is capital account

liberalization. This will also be mutually supported by further

reform actions in RMB internationalization, domestic bond

markets and banking sector," he said, referring to the yuan

using an abbreviation for renminbi, an alternate name for the

currency.

Still, some traders cautioned that the move does not alter

the fundamental nature of China's onshore forex market, which

remains tightly controlled by the central bank.

"Actually, even after this expansion, control is still in

the hands of the central bank. The impact isn't that large,"

said the joint-stock bank trader.

Indeed, the widening of the band would not prevent ad hoc

interventions in the market by the central bank in response to

sharp swings. Such intervention can be difficult to confirm, but

traders and analysts widely believe they occur

periodically.