The first few months of 2014 have brought many changes, including an issue that affects everyone in the country ¡ª health insurance.

With the new Affordable Care Act by President Obama, there is an initiative to get young adults insured for health expenses. The Affordable Care Act was enacted in October 2013 to make advances in better quality healthcare at less expensive prices so more Americans could be insured.

According to healthcare.gov, 40 percent of the residents in Missouri who were uninsured in October 2013 were 19-34 years old.

¡°My personal thought is that the push to get young adults insured is so strong because young people have less claims and less medical expenses,¡± said Georgia Cable, the manager of eligibility services with Mercy Hospital.

Young adults are allowed to stay on their parents¡¯ medical insurance plans until the age of 26. If a person doesn¡¯t have this opportunity and is uninsured, the open enrollment period for anyone to apply lasts until March 31.

After March 31, enrolling in a plan should be limited to life-changing events, such as turning 26, Cable said.

When the time comes for young adults to get their own health plan, they can do so through the Missouri insurance marketplace, a website that groups all of the available plans and lets consumers compare prices and coverage, much like the travel websites for hotels and flight tickets.

This is what senior early childhood education major Anastasia Samocha will have to do when she turns 26 in four years. She is currently on her parents¡¯ plan and is grateful for having that help for expenses.

Samocha knows that she will need to get her own coverage either through her job after graduation or some other method and realizes how important it is in our society.

¡°While I don¡¯t currently pay for my own insurance, I do hold it at a high priority for the future. I have a pre-existing condition that, without insurance, will get very expensive very quickly,¡± she said.

One of the stipulations in the Affordable Care Act is that insurance companies are not allowed to deny coverage to anyone with a pre-existing condition.

Cable said it is difficult to give people an average cost of health insurance plans, as everyone¡¯s financial situation is different. She did say that for students, financial aid and student loans do not count as reportable income, so the money used to pay for school instead of the cost of living will not affect premiums on the coverage plans.

To figure out the health insurance plan that will work best for you, you can go to healthcare.gov or the Missouri marketplace website at covermissouri.org. From there you can use the cost estimators to put in your current income, and it will give you a rough estimate of how much a health insurance plan will cost you and what expenses it will cover during medical emergencies.

Taylor Health and Wellness also offers insurance options for Missouri State students. International students are required to buy the plan covering injury and sickness. Other students are not required to but are encouraged to if they are not covered in some other way.

Students must be enrolled in at least six credit hours to be eligible. More information about Taylor¡¯s plans can be found at http://health.missouristate.edu/students/insurance.htm.

Cable said that Mercy and Missouri State have worked in the past to create outreach events to assist students in the open enrollment process, and they are currently planning to sponsor another before open enrollment ends.