NEW YORK (TheStreet) - Hertz said on Tuesday it will spin off its equipment rental business, Hertz Equipment Rental, in an effort to refocus on the company's car rental business. The spinoff of Hertz' equipment rental business is expected to generate $2.5 billion in cash that will be used to pay down the company's debt and support a newly approved $1 billion share repurchase. Overall, the spinoff may dramatically alter Hertz' capital structure, putting its leverage in line with competitors, while providing Wall Street with a far more straightforward car rental business. Hertz' newly announced share repurchase could allow the car rental chain to buy back 20% of its outstanding shares, the company said in a Tuesday statement. Hertz also raised the prospect of additional returns of capital to shareholders as a result of the company's targeted net debt ratio of 2.5-to-3.5 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). Those debt levels are nearly double Hertz year-end target of net-debt of just 1.6 times EBITDA, putting the company closer in line with Avis Budget . "The actions announced today will create separate companies which we expect to benefit from improved financial profiles that include increased earnings stability and higher returns on capital," Mark P. Frissora, CEO of Hertz said in a statement. Donlen Hertz Equipment Rental will be renamed Donlen, and will have its own management team after the spinoff. The business generated annual revenues of over $1.5 billion in 2013, with 38% of those sales from construction market, 26% from industrial users, and a further 36% from other markets including niche markets like the energy sector. At separation, Donlen is expected to have net debt of 3.5 times-to-4.0 times 2014 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA).Hertz and Dollar Thrifty For Hertz's more well-known car rental business, the spinoff may improve the company's cash flow, allowing the company to return capital to shareholders. The spinoff may also give investors access to a pure-play car rental business that may be in recovery after the market was dramatically oversupplied in the years since the financial crisis. Consolidation such as Hertz takeover of Dollar Thrifty, and a recovering economy may also allow rental giants like Hertz, Avis Budget and Enterprise to regain their pricing power. Activist Investors In December, Third Point Management and Corvex Management were reported as having taken stakes in Hertz, in an effort to unlock value at the car rental giant. Those reported investments came after company's weak third-quarter results, which caused shares to significantly underperform the S&P 500 in the second half of 2013. Hertz enacted a so-called 'poison pill' in response to those media reports and high trading volumes in the company's shares. Third Point repeatedly declined to comment on those reports, and on Tuesday declined to provide any statement. In a late December note to clients reacting to those media reports, JPMorgan analyst Kevin Milota said Hertz investors were frustrated the company hadn't moved quicker with a sale or spinoff of its capital intensive equipment rental business. Such a transaction could unlock significant free cash flow for Hertz and increase the company's strategic focus on the rental car market, Milota said. "In our view, if HTZ was to exit the equipment rental business, its free cash flow profile would dramatically increase, as we estimate $267m in net fleet investments in 2013 and $250m in 2014, that would otherwise not be necessary if [Hertz's equipment rental business] was sold/spun-off," the analyst wrote. JPMorgan estimated Hertz would generate $693 million in 2014 free cash flow and $936 million in 2015. In December, Milota characterized Hertz existing buyback as "fairly modest compared to its free cash flow profile."Management Focus Hertz continues to integrate its acquisition of Dollar Thrifty and will use the equipment rental spin off to quickly pay down debt assumed in the deal, which took years to execute. Those strategic initiatives may now come to the forefront of Hertz strategy given the company's efforts to streamline its business lines and re-configure its capital structure towards expanded returns of capital to investors. Whether Hertz initiates a dividend is still to be seen. Hertz shares were rising nearly 2% in pre-market Tuesday trading. Shares have gained over 27% over the past 12-months. -- Written by Antoine Gara in New York Click to view a price quote on HTZ. Click to research the Diversified Services industry.Weiter zum vollst¡èndigen Artikel bei "TheStreet.com"