According to Consumer Reports, approximately 70 percent of retirees¡¯ net wealth is locked up in their homes. Given that statistic, you¡¯d think that reverse mortgages would be a very popular solution for tapping into all that wealth. Yet prior to 2012, the cost, complexity and even stigma of a reverse mortgage have made it the choice of last resort for elderly retirees needing cash.

Things changed beginning in 2012, when the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which insures most reverse mortgages through its Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM) program, created the HECM Saver to lower costs and increase flexibility. Reverse mortgages are now being used not just as a last resort, but as one component of a comprehensive retirement plan.

The key benefit of a reverse mortgage, available to homeowners ages 62 and older, is the ability to tap into a portion of your home¡¯s equity value without having to sell your home. You can withdraw a lump sum of money or create a line of credit similar to a home equity line (HELOC), from which you can draw cash when needed.

The amount you can borrow depends on your age (the older you are, the greater the amount), current interest rates and the value of your home.

FROM REVERSEMORTGAGEKDC.COM Nothing needs to be paid back to the lender as long as you or your spouse are alive and living in the home. After you pass away, your estate pays back the principal plus accrued interest to the lender, typically by selling the property. Any remaining equity goes to your heirs. The best part: If there¡¯s not enough equity in the property to cover the loan, the FHA pays the difference to the lender, preserving the remaining assets in the estate for your heirs.

The line of credit option has become the most popular choice, because it offers the most flexibility and incurs the lowest costs. As with a HELOC, if you don¡¯t borrow the money, you don¡¯t pay any interest. Unlike a HELOC, a HECM line of credit cannot be reduced or frozen, and the loan does not become due until your death. The HECM line of credit even grows as you become older, regardless of your home¡¯s value.

Reverse mortgages, however, don¡¯t come for free. There are closing costs and loan origination and servicing fees similar to what you¡¯d incur with a traditional mortgage, not to mention FHA insurance premiums to cover any lender losses from equity declines.

And, of course, there is the interest that you have to pay on the loan, which in the case of a line of credit is variable based on prevailing rates.

All these factors make reverse mortgages more expensive than traditional mortgages. None of these costs has to be paid out-of-pocket. Nonetheless, they do limit the amount you can borrow and also affect the amount of equity your heirs have to sacrifice when your house is eventually sold.
 It¡¯s much easier to qualify for than a traditional mortgage.
 Mandatory independent counseling by a government-trained nonprofit agency before you can apply provides a measure of consumer education and protection.
 Your executor/trustee has up to one year to pay off the loan after repayment becomes due.

There are downsides to a reverse mortgage as well.
 The loan can be called early due to nonpayment of property taxes, homeowners insurance or failure to adequately maintain the property, potentially forcing you to sell the house prematurely.
 Having extra money available (especially when taken as a lump sum) puts you at risk of spending it too quickly or becoming a target for financial abuse by family or financial advisers. That¡¯s why a reverse mortgage should never be used except as part of a well-thought-through retirement plan.

There are alternatives to a reverse mortgage if you want to access some of the equity built up in your home. The simplest is to downsize by selling your current home and either buying or renting a less expensive, smaller house. Alternatively, if your adult children have the financial wherewithal, you can create a sale-leaseback arrangement in which you sell the house to one (or more) of your children and then rent it back using the cash you get from the sale. Your children benefit by getting rental income and tax write-offs (as long as you structure the transaction properly, according to the IRS), and you get the cash. However, once the lease expires, your children have the right to kick you out. You may not be comfortable giving up that degree of control over your home.

A private reverse mortgage is another option. You¡¯ll benefit because your children will charge you less than commercial lenders, your up-front costs will be lower and there won¡¯t be ongoing mortgage-insurance expenses. Plus the interest rate ¨C which the IRS sets each month ¨C will be lower than what commercial lenders charge. But again, it¡¯s important to structure the deal so that it passes muster with the IRS.

Reverse mortgages have emerged as a viable retirement planning tool as long as they are used carefully and thoughtfully. The more tools we have, the better the likelihood that we can afford to do all the things in our later years that we¡¯d always hoped to do.

Artie Green is a Certified Financial Planner and principal at Cognizant Wealth Advisors. For more information, call 209-4062 or email This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. .