Gold futures settled at their lowest level in more than two weeks on Thursday, as strength in the U.S. dollar and equities continued to pressure prices for the metal in the aftermath of Republican Donald Trump¡¯s U.S. presidential election win.

Trading has been volatile since news of Trump¡¯s win emerged. Gold reversed course just ahead of Wednesday¡¯s settlement to finish with a modest decline as U.S. equities climbed and the dollar strengthened following of the election result.

Read: Why gold failed to rally after Trump¡¯s win

Prices for copper and silver, meanwhile, rallied on expectations that Trump¡¯s administration will feed demand for the industrial metals.

Gold futures for December delivery US:GCZ6 fell $7.10, or 0.6%, to settle at $1,266.40 an ounce. Prices marked a fourth-straight session decline to mark the lowest finish since Oct. 24, FactSet data show.

¡°The dollar is retesting the high of October 25th, which was the highest level since February,¡± said Bill Baruch, chief market strategist at iiTRADER. ¡°A move out above here will put further pressure on gold.¡±

The ICE U.S. Dollar Index DXY, -0.09% was up 0.3% at 98.75 in Thursday trading after a high of 99.08. The intraday high in October was 99.12. U.S. stocks were mixed, but the Dow industrials climbed to a record. Gold typically moves inversely to the dollar and stocks.

¡°Gold is still getting caught up in the big outflows of capital back into risk markets following the election,¡± Colin Cieszynski, chief market strategist at CMC Markets, told MarketWatch.

¡°Right now, the Street appears to be expecting that a Trump administration would be good for business and the markets,¡± he said. ¡°But there¡¯s still the potential for political volatility and uncertainty going forward, so I wouldn¡¯t count gold out completely.¡±

Looking ahead, potential influences include the Italy referendum on Dec. 4, Trump¡¯s inauguration in January, France elections in spring 2017 and Germany elections in fall 2017, said Cieszynski. ¡°There is a lot of potential for more upheaval next year so I see the current decline in gold as a downdraft or correction opposite to the relief rally in stocks, not the start of a new downtrend.¡±

Of course, there¡¯s also the Federal Reserve meeting on Dec. 13 to Dec. 14.

¡°We believe the longer-term downward fate of the yellow metal remains tied to [Fed] policy normalization and yield divergence that will drive dollar strength,¡± said Harry Tchilinguirian and the commodities market team at BNP Paribas, in a note.

Higher Fed interest rates ¡ª expected although not guaranteed at the central bank¡¯s December meeting ¡ª could weigh on gold prices. Gold doesn¡¯t offer a yield, so typically loses favor among some investors in a rising-rate climate.

BNP said its revised gold forecasts for 2016 and 2017 to $1,255 and $1,130 an ounce, respectively, It sees silver averaging at $17.45 this year and $16.30 next year.

On Thursday, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the U.S. election result ¡°breaks gridlock in Washington, which has been a key complaint about how the economy has operated.¡± He also said it looks like the Feed only needs to nudge up interest rates even though it¡¯s very close its targets of full employment and stable inflation.

Data Thursday showed that the weekly jobless claims fell by 11,000 to touch a one-month low of 254,000.

Meanwhile, copper and silver prices rallied as investors bet on higher spending on infrastructure under a new administration.

Read: Copper hits 16-month high on hopes for U.S. construction boom

Also read: Trump stock-market rally signals new era of ¡®yuuge¡¯ government spending

¡°Investors analyzed the Trump¡¯s speech with a lot of infrastructure highlights in it,¡± said Nico Pantelis, head of research at Secular Investor.

¡°Rebuilding America requires huge piles of (base metal) commodities,¡± he said. So ¡°traders are bidding up these economic-sensitive commodities.¡±

December silver US:SIZ6 jumped 35.9 cents, or 2%, to $18.737 an ounce and December copper US:HGZ6 added 9.2 cents, or 3.7%, to $2.551 a pound, after climbing 3.3% on Wednesday.

Also on Comex, January platinum US:PLF7 lost $21.10, or 2.1%, to $982.20 an ounce, while December palladium US:PAZ6 added $15.05, or 2.2%, to $696.50 an ounce.

Among the exchange-traded funds, the SPDR Gold Trust GLD, +0.59% fell 0.7%, while the VanEck Vectors Gold Miners ETF GDX, +1.21% dropped by 4.9%.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.