French conglomerate Bouygues SA (BOUYY.PK) Thursday said it has decided to lift its offer for media giant Vivendi SA's (VIV.L,VIVEF.PK) SFR unit by 1 billion euros, thus allowing Vivendi to benefit from the agreement signed with Iliad on March 9.

On March 5, Bouygues said it submitted an offer to Vivendi to start negotiations to merge Bouygues Telecom and Vivendi's SFR unit. The offer valued SFR at 14.5 billion euros pre synergies and at 19 billion euros post synergies.

Following this, Bouygues and Bouygues Telecom entered into exclusive talks to sell part of its mobile phone network and a portfolio of frequencies to smaller peer Ilaid SA's Free in a deal valued at up to $2.5 billion.

The deal with Free will enable Bouygues to alleviate anti-trust concerns on the merger between Bouygues Telecom and SFR, and aims to preserve strong, infrastructure-based competition in France. The sale of network and frequencies is conditional on the merger between Bouygues Telecom and SFR being completed.

Further, earlier this week, cable holding company Altice S.A. confirmed that on March 5 it made a fully financed cash and share offer to Vivendi for a combination of SFR and Altice's subsidiary Numericable. The offer involved a payment to Vivendi in the form of 10.9 billion euros in cash and Numericable shares representing 32 percent of the share capital of new Numericable-SFR group. It remains valid until March 14.

Bouygues said today that it is now offering Vivendi 11.3 billion euros in cash, equating to an increase of 800 million euros, as well as a 43 percent interest in the new entity. This new offer values SFR at 15.5 billion euros pre-synergies and at nearly 20 billion euros factoring in all the synergies.

As part of this improved offer, Bouygues' interest in the new entity following the merger would be 52 percent compared to 49 percent in the previous offer.

An IPO of the new entity is planned as soon as the merger is completed. This offers Vivendi an immediate opportunity to monetize its interest. Bouygues said it is committed to facilitate the liquidity of Vivendi's interest in the new entity.

The new Bouygues Telecom-SFR entity is expected to create a major French digital communications group with significant investment capacity, particularly for the roll-out of optical fiber and to develop innovation and quality of service for the benefit of consumers.

Bouygues is losing 0.70 percent in early morning trade at 31.80 euros. Vivendi is up 0.7 percent at 20.29 euros.