16.50 That's where we'll close up the blog for the night. Thanks for reading and commenting and we'll be back first thing to bring you the rolling business news of the day. In the meantime, you can read all the top stories of the day on our finance page .

16.36 Bourses across Europe have had a mixed day. The FTSE 100 ended the day as listlessly as it started, down just 0.06pc. Germany's Dax edged up 0.25pc to 9,289.07, while the Cac in France dipped 0.57pc to 4,346.04.

Over on Wall Street, the Dow Jones is down 0.26pc and the S&P 500 has fallen 0.36pc.

16.15 Men's Wearhouse has announced that it is to buy its rival Jos. A Bank for $65 a share in cash, in a deal which values the smaller company at around $1.8bn and brings an end to months of hostile negotiations between the pair.

16.04 The Bank of England has just released minutes that were formerly withheld from the public from the November 14 meeting of its Court of Directors. In it they reveal that the Court- which comprises the governor and deputy governors plus nine other directors - discussed the "potential" for manipulation but that no members said they were aware of any actual or alleged manipulation. The Bank said that it originally withheld these minutes since, at the time, their release was considered to be "against the public interest".

SAC Capital changes its name to Point72

15.41 Paying a record fine to settle charges of insider trading would be one trigger for a rebrand. But SAC Capital, the US hedge fund where two former employees have been found guilty of insider trading and a further six have pleaded guilty to the same charge, has not used its re-name to indicate a dramatic shift in its identity. Point72, its new name, is a reference to the company headquarter's long-occupied street address, 72 Cummings Point Road.

<noframe>Twitter: Charles Gasparino - maybe its just me but does SAC's name really change anything? its not like martoma was found not guilty or the feds rescinded the indictment</noframe>

15.16 The odds of a final deal on EU banking union between the individual member states and the European Parliament are narrowing as the meeting between the bloc's finance ministers drags on with no sign of a deal. The stand-off centres around the most controversial pillar of banking union - the single resolution mechanism - a proposed common fund which would be used to wind down or rescue ailing eurozone banks.

The idea is that the fund will be built up over the course of a number of years with levies charged on eurozone banks. But peripheral states like Spain are pushing for EU governments to provide guarantees that if a bank needed bailed out before the fund was fully built up, that it could still access rescue money. Germany on the other hand has refused to pledge any taxpayer support for the fund.

15.05 The UK economy grew 0.8pc in the three months to the end of February, slightly faster than in the three months to January, according to the National Institute for Economic and Social Research.

FCA is not investigationg BoE for forex rigging allegations

14.55 BREAKING: The Financial Conduct Authority has said it is not investigating the Bank of England for forex rigging allegations. Last week the Bank announced that it had suspended a member of staff in relation to its internal investigation into forex rigging over possible breaches of its "internal control processes".

The Bank of England will never unwind QE, nor should it

14.30 That is the bold claim by our very own Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, which he says Carney pretty much admitted himself this morning as part of his very long grilling by MPs.

He says Britain has just carried out the greatest victimless crimes in modern financial history. It is in effect wiping out public debt worth 20pc to 25pc of GDP 每 on the sly 每 without inflicting serious macroeconomic damage or frightening global bond markets.

Governor Mark Carney more or less acknowledged this morning that the Bank of England will never reverse its 375bn of Gilts purchases. Quite right too.

※Any unwinding of QE should come after several adjustments to rates,§ he told the Treasury Select Committee. The word ※any§ tells us what we need to know.

This follows comments by Deputy Governor Charlie Bean yesterday that the Bank will ※only contemplate selling back Gilts once the recovery is on a firm path.§ He admitted that some holdings may never be sold.

The Bank has come a long way from the early days of QE when any such suggestion was treated as an outrageous smear. There was a mantra that helicopter money requires a hoover afterwards to vacuum it up.

But in a deflationary world there is no clear imperative to do so. The Bank can sit on its Gilts forever. These can be switched in zero-coupon bonds in perpetuity. The certificates can be put in a drawer and left to rot. The debt is eliminated in all but name.

14.12 After nearly five hours in the hot seat, it is over, and I'm sure noone is happier about that than Carney himself.

13.54 Things are getting heated now.

Back to those 2006 miuntes in which is says that there were concerns about market manipulation in the forex market.

Andrea Leadsom puts it to Carney and Fisher that those minutes should have set off alarm bells.

It is put to them that following the revelation of the Libor scandal the Bank should have gone back through minutes to look to see if there had been any concerns about rigging in other markets.

Fisher says those minutes "did not convey to me that markets were being rigged".

He goes on to say that it is not the job of the Bank to go hunting for manipulation, but will deal with it if it does come across it.

13.44 George Moodie takes his turn to ask questions, except they have already been asked so he warns that his could be a bit all over the place.

So Moodie says it seems as if Carney has managed to exit himself from the investigation and passed it over to the Bank's Court and also the FCA.

Carney responds to says it is the job of the FCA, as decided by parliament, that they investigate this.

This is extremely seriously. It is as serious as Libor, if not more so.

In my role as chairman of the FSB and as governor, I have had discussions with the heads of all other major central banks.

We are going to report to the leaders of the g20 on this issue, so we are taking it seriously.

He goes on to say again that the Bank is also addressing any issues internally.

We have spared no expense in conducting this and will spare no expense in completeing that investigation.

We will take the appropriate steps once we have all the information.

At same time will work at an international level to fix that.

13.34 Andy Love now asks Carney if the Bank can be confident that there wil not be any additional issues to come out from the forex investigation for the Bank.

I am not aware of any additional issues but I＊m acutely aware of our responsibility to complete a thorough investigation of all aspects of this issue.

It is incredibly important for the foreign exchange market and integrity of the bank of England.

I would not want to leave you with the impression that we have done something and will now relax.

Carney says again that the investigation will be very thorough and stringent to ensure that the Bank's integrity is not damaged.

We don＊t just owe it to the people of ths country, but also to our employees who have acted with integrity and dedication.

We can＊t come out of this with a shadow of doubt about the integrity of the Bank of England and we will not.

Carney says that while the investigation is taking place the Bank is putting in measures internally to reinforce the best aspects of the culture of the Bank.

13.27 Carney is asked for more details as to the grounds on which the Bank employee has been suspended.

Understandably Carney will not be drawn on this and says that the investigation was inline with the Bank's rigorous standards.

Again Carney is asked why the employee's line manager was not suspended or the subject of the investigation.

We take the situation extremely seriously. We have conducted an investigation that has looked at not the actions of one individual employee but all relevant employees.

I make no judgement on that individual.

It is imperative we look at all aspects of the situation. We reconfirm the integrity and prudence and dedication of the ongoing employees of the Bank.

13.25 David Ruffley now asking the Bank to confirm when it first heard about the allegations.

Ruffley asks how it was communicated.

Carney says a colleague was informed but a market participant, who then told the governors who immediately met to discuss and then sought council within 48 hours.

Carney says the Bank did not carry out its own investigation before appointing Travers Smith as its legal council.

Ruffley asks why on February 11 the Bank's Oversight Committee took the lead on the investigation.

Carney explains that the first phase was to gather evidence, which he says was a very comprehensive effort to gather that - 14,00 emails, 21,000 chats and more. e pictuire as possible.

Once we came into possession of material which warranted intesification and led to suspension, the governors met, and at the next court meeting in March we told Court of our decision.

Then the oversight comimtte, without the executive, met immediately after that meeting and made the decision to take responsibility to investigation as they see fit.

13.16 So what's the plan for the Bank's investigation?

Carney says it will follow through the investigation, explain why if it finds there were failings and then take action to ensure those failings don't happen again.

One other thing we should do (may be others) 每 both for internal and external understanding is to more clearly establish what principles are around fair market.

It has to be a real market, not just about no market abuse but open to anyone who wants to be apart of it.

13.06 Carney is asked if the Financial Conduct Authority can investigate the Bank of England?

It can and will investigate any individuals for any of these aspects (forex rigging).

Pat McFadden asks if the regulator can treat the central bank as it would any other high street banl:

Yes it can.

Indivuals at the institution under same scrutiny as at any institution.

Carney goes on to note that the Bank has no information that anyone from the Bank condoned, facilitiated or took part in market mainupulation.

He says the Bank holds it emplpyees to a higher standard than other institutions and following its review it had cause to suspend an employee.

12.54 Carney says the Bank first became aware that it could be involved in forex manipulation on October 16.

He says the Bank engaged legal council just 48 hours later.

12.49 Tyrie asks why the Bank released the name of the employee that has been suspended relating to forex rigging investigation.

Carney says the Bank did not release the name.

Tyrie asks if it was a leak.

As you are no doubt aware, there is a very active press in this country, it;s a sign of a healthy democracy - people can speculate.

Carney goes on to say that he will not confirm if the person named in the press is the individual who has been suspended.

I would take the opportunity that suspension is not a disciplinary action, it is an action to further the investigation that has been taken over by the oversight committee.

Tyrie asks Fisher if he considered suspending the employee's boss.

Carney tries to respond but Tyrie says he wants to hear from Fisher.

Fisher cautious to say too much but says he has no reason to take further action.

Carney now allowed to speak. He says decision to suspend was taken by governors on the back of evidence found during the investigation.

12.43 We're back for the final part of Carney's marathon grilling session. This time it's on foreign exchange.

12.37 Another quick break- next up: how much did the Bank know about allegations of forex rigging?

12.30 Carney explains the concept of the "contingent liability" in any currency union - that is to say that a no bail out rule would not necessarily be watertight:

One of the risks is that there is a contingent liability that builds up e.g. eurozone. Everyone's familiar with events over last five years. There's no bailout clause in the Maastricht Treaty but, when push canme to shove, that was not credible. There were extraordinary efforts made by European officials to avoid [financial collapse in peripheral countries]. The issue for the rest of the UK would be: would it be credible to stand by if an independent Scotland were to be in fiscal difficulties? If it's not credible then the structure of the currency union is less than perfect but it's also taking on a contingent liability to the UK balance sheet.

These are all issues that need to be thought through in advance.

12.15 What if Scotland joined an EU banking union, asks Andrea Leadsom.

There would be advantages in terms of a newly established single supervisory mechanism. [But] the single supervisory mechanism of the ECB also relies on national supervisors for smaller local firms so there would need to be some capacity built up there.

It has the advantage of having a single resolution mechanism which solves one of the issues.

It does not have the advantage of common deposit guarantee scheme which would need to be built up.

Still to be determined would be the lender of last resort arrangements.

And asked whether a currency union with the EU would be viable, Carney says any currency union is "a bit like being pregnant" in that you can't be somewhat viable, you either are or you are not.

Does it make it more viable? There's a wide range of factors which would determine viability. Viability in a currency union is a bit like being pregnant. You can't be half viable in a currency union. You need all the components of a currency union. You have to look at the whole package.

12.09 He's also said Scotland would need to hold higher currency reserves if a sterling union was perceived as temporary.



 

 12.03 Carney says it would be a "distinct possibility" that RBS would have to move its headquarters to England if Scotland becomes independent but remains part of the EU.

12.02 Would Scottish banks need to change their domicile to continue to be regulated by the London regulators, asks David Ruffley.

The key question is that it is not clear in the European context that the domicile of the major banks in Scotland would remain in Scotland given the location of head office like activities in the rest of the UK. It's not an issue at the moment. There are considerable value added head office activities in Scotland for those banks but a determination would have to be made.

Ruffley asks whether the PRA would require Scottish banks to bring their headquarters to England should Scotland become independent. Carney says:

If Scotland were not a member of the EEA that is a decision the PRA would have to consider very carefully.

11.57 He adds that an independent Scotland would need to guarantee Scottish-domiciled banks' English deposits under EU law.

11.56 Carney says the Bank would have to evaluate the suitability of Scotland's financial institutions for the continued access to the Bank of England's services.

How we do that evaluation depends on whether an independent Scotland was a member of the EU or EEA. If it were, there are passporting rights. If not we have to make an individual assessment of solvency and viability of those institutions. That deterination would be influenced by the credibility of the monetary arrangements.

11.50 Nor has the Financial Policy Committee discussed Scottish independence.

It is in part a product of the assessment of risk we have to prioritise. The arrangements, if this were to come to pass, there is a period of time over which arrangements would be developed.

The second point is that there is a referendum in September there is a clear view of all the parties in Westminster on the arrangements after that referendum which colours the prob of the types of financial stability risk that we could face.

If the circumstances were to come to pass that there were a prospect to the change of monetary arrangements in the UK that fell to the wrong side of the risks outlined in my speech, we would provide clear and public advice on those.

11.45 The Bank has not considered whether the composition of the MPC would change if Scotland were to enter into a currency union as this is a question of governance, so the responsibility of the Government.

11.43 Carney says Scotland's economy is more volatile due to its industrial structure, but is reluctant to predict whether it would be more or less volatile on its own.

There are a variety of issues around an informal adoption of sterling, not least the absence of formal lender of last resort abilities, deposit guarantee systems.

11.41 Do economies need to be well correlated for currency unions to work, asks Hosie. Here's Carney:

It's beneficial to the suitability of monetary policy of constituent members of currency unions. It's more difficult if policy is tight because of weight of activity in one part of the union versus another.

The economies are highly correlated. The counterfactual question is: To what extent could that change should there be a change in the arrangements between Scotland and the rest of the UK?

11.36 Stuart Hosie wonders how members of a currency union can ensure price and financial stability. Carney says the essential elements are:

- free movement of labour, goods and capital, adding that any element that detracts from those movements could lead to some misalignment in terms of economic cycles

- there needs to be currency arrangements with smooth fluctuation in some parts of the union. "Looking at federations, that central fiscal arrangement tends to be in the order of 25pc of GDP which provides some stabilisers".

- there can be disparity between members, but not too much.

11.30 We're back in business. Now Carney is being asked about the economics of currency unions with a view to the possibility of an independent Scotland forming one with the rest of the UK.

11.22 That ties up the inflation report section of today's session. The Committee is taking a five minute break. Next up, Carney will be flying solo, and facing questions on the "economics of currency unions".

11.20 David Miles has called an end to below-inflation wage rises. He says we're getting to the point where wage growth will start outstripping inflation, although he adds that while he is optimistic about growth, that he is less optimistic about making up for all the lost ground of the last few years.

11.15 After a fairly unexciting start to trading, the FTSE 100 has slipped lower and is down 19 points, or 0.3pc, at 6,670 in mid-morning dealings. Worries about the Ukraine crisis and poor Chinese exports data hit the market yesterday. David Madden, market analyst at spread-better IG, reckons both factors are continuing to weigh on sentiment:

Stocks have gotten off to a shaky start this morning as the mining sector is still fragile after the slump yesterday on the back of Chinese trade figures. The Asian powerhouse is depending too heavily on credit for it's growth, but who will fill the gap when their appetite for metals falls?

Traders are reluctant to go long on banks as they play wait-and-see for the Crimea crisis to play out; the possibility of a war is forcing dealers to remain on the sidelines.

11.08 Miles Fisher has admitted that recordings of the Bank of England MPC meetings are not kept - that the minutes are the only version of meetings kept for posterity. He says there were efforts do do so initially but that the "free flowing discussion" meant "it was very hard to transcribe the tapes in a way that made any sense in terms of written material".

He says he thinks it would "change the nature of the debate if people had an eye on the fact they were being recorded for posterity" and that he wanted to ensure that the committee meetings had a "genuine free flowing expression of ideas".

Tyrie asks Carney to revisit this issue and see if he can find a way to keep recordings of committee meetings.

<noframe>Twitter: Hugh Pym - Andrew Tyrie argues best for historians if recordings of MPC meetings are retained - asks Governor to consider transcripts of meetings</noframe>

11.05 George Mudie is digging into the early history of QE, asking the MPC members to confirm that it was pushed on the governor by the then-Chancellor Gordon Brown.

Miles Fisher says the Bank's asset purchases took two forms. The decision to monthly asset purchases for monetary policy purposes in March 2009 was taken by the MPC, with permission from the Government. He says that prior to this the Treasury asked the Bank ot undertake asset purchases but not for monetary policy purposes.

<noframe>Twitter: James Kirkup - Carney: There is no danger of my vote or anyone else&rsquo;s on the committee being influenced by the political timetable.</noframe>

10.53 David Miles says SME lending "slowly has improved". He says he has "detected more optimism among SMEs" in the last six to 12 months among SEMs, even though loan availability has "lagged behind the major improvement" for larger companies.

10.47 David Ruffley wonders what will most help solve the productivity puzzle.

Carney says it will be a mix of a "better functioning financial system, leading to better reallocation and getting births and deaths back up", a process of "learning by doing which comes as a consequence of rapid growth" and a "sharp pick up in investment over the forecast period".

10.39 John Mann wants to know whether Carney meant that labour in the North will undergo more recycling than that in the South.

The basic point I was making is we have seen less adjustment than we have seen historically in terms of new company formation and old company exit. That process adds to productivity and that adds to real wages.

10.38 David Miles says the "safe real interset rate" in the world has been steadily declining in recent years, and declined even more in the years after the financial crisis.

That's partly a reflection that people think the economy is a more risky place and they are willing to accept a lower rate on interst on safe assets.

10.30 Carney in a case of stating the obvious: "The Bank of England needs to get better at forecasting."

10.27 Tyrie asks Carney why he has said QE should not happen until interest rates start rising. Carney goes even further, saying unwinding QE should come after "several" rounds of interest rate rises. This is because, he says, it would be best to avoid a situation where the Bank would have to restart asset purchases.

10.26 Back in the FTSE 100, Sports Direct, up 2.5pc, is the biggest riser in the index, buoyed by the performance targets the company has set out in its executive bonus share scheme. Following Sports Direct's proposal to partner with Debenhams, there has been speculation the sports retailer might attempt a takeover of the department store group. Analysts at Espirito Santo today said:

What do the new debt and EBITDA targets imply re Debenhams and Sports Direct's (SPD) capacity to take it out? We only mention this as the market is bound to consider it. Debenhams has a current market cap of 970m, consensus EBITDA at Aug 14 of 230m and forecast net debt at that time of around 400m 每 so a current enterprise value of 1.4bn. Combined pro-forma EBITDA of 630m would allow net debt at 1.5x to reach 950m. So SPD would not be able to buy Debenhams for cash and stay within the debt target. This is all our estimation as SPD has not given any clue as to its intentions. So we think today＊s news should be good for SPD (FY 15E EBITDA target 7-8pc ahead of consensus) and a negative for Debenhams.

10.24 An interesting line of questioning from Tyrie. "Is QE monetary policy?" "Is it the preserve of the MPC?" Carney answers yes to both.

My view is that the unwinding of QE is a monetary policy decision.

I think we should consult with the debt management office but with respect to the Treasury it's clearly an MPC decision.

10.19 Carney has also conceded that the Bank will not sell off all the 375bn of QE "as some will mature before the sale". He's also said that the Bank is "moving back" to the day when it will no longer need to provide forward guidance.

10.16 And the MPC's David Miles has admitted he has no special insight into the Bank's distinction between the 'output gap' and 'slack in the economy'.

<noframe>Twitter: Chris Giles - Hooray, David Miles says he is confused about the distinction made between slack and the output gap. Aren't we all</noframe>

10.12 Returning to the Treasury Select Committee, Carney has admitted that he was overruled by the MPC on publishing the output gap.

<noframe>Twitter: Philip Aldrick - Carney reveals he has been overruled on the MPC. 'I think we shd publish the output gap but I'm not in the majority on the cttee' he says</noframe>

BREAKING: Bob Crow, leader of the RMT union, has died

10.10 We're getting reports that union leader Bob Crow has died. He was 52.

10.08 Carney admits that the Bank's surveys have found that forward guidance was "much better understood" by businesses than by households.

10.05 He says the introduction of 18 economic indicators in the February inflation report was a result of the Stockton review's recommendations to improve Bank transparency. He also says that Charlie Bean's estimate that interest rates could reach 2 to 2.5pc over the next three years is "not unreasonable".



 10.03 Carney says he has "absolutely no regrets" about putting in forward guidance:

In terms of the first phase of guidance we focussed on unemployment. That was a relatively easy call because it was the most readily identifiable, easily understood indicator of spare capacity in economy.

Thee key uncertainty around unemployment is the pace of recovery and productivity in economy. The unemployment rate has come down faster than we expected but we were careful to underscore that this was state dependent guidance not a promise of time.

I have absolutely no regrets that we are sitting here in March with amost half a milion people more in work and inflation at target.

<noframe>Twitter: Louise Armitstead - Carney under attack from MPs for switching explicit forward guidance for "18 new goal posts" and "fuzzy guidance."</noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Louise Armitstead - Carney defends Fwd guidance: "I have absolutely no regrets that we&rsquo;re sitting here in March with half a million more people in work."</noframe>

09.51 Carney says that the pressure that rising interest rates will put on shaky businesses is no bad thing for the economy.mortgage costs will increase just using market interest rates

[With low interest rates, there have been] fewer births and deaths of companies and as a consequence less recycling of capital and labour and oopportunity. It's hard to quantify this but we think that's one of the causes of the weak productivity performance.

It's a necessary part of the adjustment in the economy. It is a factor which influences the pace and level of adjustment of interest rates.

09.48 Carney says the Bank's Financial Policy Committee is looking to introduce a mortgage affordability test that works in the potential for mortgage rates to rise nearer normal levels over the course of the mortgage.

09.40 Carney says the Bank does not have the tools that can directly affect the cash buyers' market in prime London property. Asked whether he is concerned that fast rising prices in London could spread to the rest of the country he said:

We have to be alive to that possibility. Our concerns centre around udnerwriting standards at present are quite high, vastly improved relative to pre crisis levels. Our concern is those standards would deteriorate, fed by general improvement in housing market. That's a pattern of behaviour we've witnessed over time so we're taking steps to ensure that doesn't happen.

Rising housing market in part because of dynamics in prime central london would encourage individuals to take greater risk without fully incorporating interest rate cycles that would transpire over the life of a mortgage.

What we are doing as the FPC is to look into [how many people would lose their houses if interest rates rise]. Not just aggregate numbers, but to using survey data and ultimately using loan level data to look at most vulnerable borrowers and how those dynamics move. Those are some of the early warning signs in terms of potential vulnerablilites in the housing market.

09.36 Martin Weale says the output gap is probably lower than what unemployment figures imply. He says that newly employed people, who account for the fall in unemployment, are typically paid 60pc of average pay since they tend to be young and because a spell of unemployment tends to carry a pay penalty. So if we're measuring output with wages, then we' might get a falsely low picture.

<noframe>Twitter: Sarah O'Connor - Weale thinks there is "something under one per cent" of spare capacity in the economy. Lot less than Carney <a href="http://t.co/uWUwdP3gLh" target="_blank">http://t.co/uWUwdP3gLh</a></noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Megan Murphy - Martin Weale really didn't like forward guidance. "Had I thought there was a significant risk that unemployment would fall... (1/2)"</noframe>

09.35 He says he believes there is spare capacity in firms as well as the labour market but that the board differs in its views on this point.

09.33 The Treasury Select Committee has kicked off.

He starts by saying he thinks the output gap is "even higher" than 1.5pc - the estimate that the Bank gave in its February inflation report and that the equilibrium level of UK unemployment is "slightly lower than 6pc".

<noframe>Twitter: Ed Conway - Carney says his personal estimate of the output gap is at the "upper range" of the Bank's 1-1.5% estimate. Eg more room for economic bounce</noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Faisal Islam - Carney personally thinks that the medium term equilibrium level of UK unemployment is "slightly lower than 6"...</noframe>

09.31 Industrial production rose 0.1pc in January, bringing the year-on-year increase to 3pc. That compared with predictions of a 0.2pc and 3pc rise respectively.

09.26 James Quinn has more details on Sutherland's resignation letter.

His resignation has not yet been accepted, but sources indicated it is hard to see him staying with the Co-op.

In his letter, he told Ms Lidbetter that the mutual is "ungovernable" and that there appear to be people within the organisation who do not want his reforms to succeed.

His resignation follows news at the weekend that he was on course to make 3.66m as part of a proposed compensation package.

The Telegraph has learned that Mr Sutherland's resignation was discussed during an emergency board meeting on Monday evening, held by telephone.

No final decision was made as to whether to accept his resignation, with further discussions set to continue this morning.

It was unclear whether Mr Sutherland was at work at the Co-op's Manchester head office this morning.

On the board call, the directors agreed to put a series of proposals on corporate governance to the annual general meeting in May.

09.06 It's a fairly uneventful start to the day for the FTSE 100, which has drifted 3 points lower to 6,685 in early trade. Engine-maker Rolls-Royce, up 1.9pc, is the biggest riser in the benchmark index for a second day running, in the wake of its deal to take full control of its power systems joint venture from Daimler.

09.00 Here's what we'll be following today:

At 09.30 Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England will face a barrage of questions on everything from February's inflation report to the Bank's knowledge of alleged forex rigging, to Scottish independence. It might be a long morning for the guv.

Also at 09.30 we'll hear how Britain's heavy industries fared in January. Economists expect output from industrial production - which includes mining, energy and manufacturing - to have grown 0.2pc.

At 10.15 Executive from Primark, Tesco and Sainsbury's will explain to MPs working on the Draft Modern Slavery Bill how their supply chains are free from slavery.

Then at 15.00 The National Institute of Economic and Social Research is putting out its GDP estimate for February.

In Brussels, George Osborne is joining the 27 other EU finance ministers for their regular Ecofin meeting - progress with an EU banking union is likely to dominate.

08.42 Louise Armitstead has taken a look at this morning's company announcements in the City Briefing email (sign up here).

John Allan, chairman of Dixons Retail, has been hired to be the next chairman of Barratt Development. Mr Allan, the former chief executive of Excel who's also a director of Royal Mail, will join Barratt's board immediately and take over from Bob Lawson in November.

Inchcape has reported a 7.7pc rise in annual sales and a 7.4pc jump in pre-tax profits, driving its fourth consecutive year of double-digit earnings. The car dealership, sells Mercedes Benz, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover in 25 countries, has described the results as "premium returns" although the figures are not quite as good as the market was expecting. Investors will be looking for an update on sales in to Russia.

Foxtons Group has reported a 16pc jump in annual revenues to 139.2m and a 56.6pc rise in pre-tax profits to 38.9m in its first full year results since listing in September last year. The estate agent has ridden the housing boom reporting a 22.5pc jump in sales volumes and a 6.7pc rise in lettings.

There are results from Esure and Antofagasta too.

Heathrow has reported a 1pc rise in passenger figures in February to 4.9m. BRIC passenger rose 2.5pc, with a 14.8pc jump in the number of people traveling from China. Reed Elsevier has published its annual report. Later Flybe shareholders will today vote on the proposed 150m placing.

Foxtons has posted a 56.6pc rise in pre-tax profits to 38.9m

08.34 Meg Hillier, Labour and Co-op MP, has criticised Euan Sutherland for 'jumping the gun' and points out that if he is embarrassed that his pay package was leaked then he does not have to accept it. Speaking on Radio Four, she said:

It seems to me that Euan Sutherland, he's got a timetable of things that have to be done but he's jumping the gun and compeltely ignoring the mutual ethos of the Co-operative Group and that is a bank that's owned by its members and that for me is a fundamental part of what the Co-operative Group is about and you can't have it both ways.

Strong leadership in a mutual model does not mean throwing a fit and throwing the toys out of the pram when something like your salary is leaked.

He needs to realise he's swimming in different waters from the PLC banking world and if he didn't want to take that on then he shouldn't have. We want him to sort out the group but to threaten to resign like this I find deeply unhelpful. It threatens the group more.

08.24 Sports Direct has called an shareholder meeting for April 4 to approve a pay scheme that would award Mike Ashley, its majority shareholder, 8m in stock, worth almost 65m.

The sports retailer was forced to withdraw a similar scheme from annual meeting last September in the face of an investor revolt, led by the ABI and PIRC. In a statement today, Sports Direct has repeated its concern that Ashley, who owns a 71pc stake and is also the owner of Newcastle United, has not been paid since the company's listing in 2007, despite its market value soaring from 2bn to 5bn. "The board believes that Mike Ashley is central to this value creation," the company has said. The company says it has already secured the support of Odey Asset Management, the hedge fund run by Crispin Odey, but it ought to be braced for a tough match with others nonetheless.

08.02 More on that story. The BBC reports that in a resignation letter, Mr Sutherland said he believed the group was "ungovernable". It reports that the letter is understood to be a "back me or sack me move".

The letter comes hot on the heels of a row over Mr Sutherland's 3.6m pay package, leaked to the Observer newspaper on Sunday. The Co-op Group has defended its boss's remuneration - almost treble that paid to his predecessor - saying it was necessary as the group sought to recover from the biggest crisis in its 150 year history.

07.52 Breaking on the BBC is news that Euan Sutherland, chief executive of the embattled Co-op Group, has written a resignation letter. We'll follow developments as the story unfolds.
 James Quinn writesthat the City regulator is to force a major shake-up of the 4bn insurance add-on market, creating greater competition in what it perceives to be a "closed shop" sector.
 EDF expects to miss its own deadline for deciding whether to build Britain＊s first new nuclear plant in a generation, the Telegraph can disclose, writes Emily Gosden
 Gatwick has raised the stakes in the battle for airport expansion in the South East by offering compensation to households likely to be most affected if the go-ahead is given for a second runway, writes Roland Gribben.

07.00 Good morning and welcome to our daily business and markets live blog, your one stop shop for all the breaking business stories of the day.