- An unnamed billionaire has purchased the world's most valuable life insurance policy.

The man who cobbled the deal together said Saturday that it took seven months and 19 insurance companies to put together a deal that surpasses a policy sold to mogul in 1990.

"No one company can afford to take a hit," said , the financial adviser who represents who he calls a "well- known billionaire."

The Guinness Book of announced the surpassing of Geffen's record on Thursday. Guinness officials spent about three months reviewing records, Frances said.

"It was worse than any audit you can think of," he said.

Guinness credits Frances with the record for selling the policy, surpassing life insurance salesman who helped put together Geffen's policy.

Frances said the billionaire purchased the insurance to help his heirs avoid paying a 45 percent inheritance tax upon his death.

Frances said that the annual premium is in "the low, single digits of millions of dollars."

- Emergency workers sifted through debris Saturday from the site of a deadly explosion at two apartment buildings as they worked to clear the way for investigators to search for clues that might reveal what caused the blast.

Fire Commissioner said rescue workers reached the rear of the basement Saturday but said that investigation of the piping and meters in the front of the basement that will help explain what caused the blast that killed eight people will likely start today.

He said that the should be able to start pressure-testing the pipes today.

Arson detectives and fire marshals have been waiting to enter the basements to examine meters, check pipes and inspect any possible ignition sources, such as light switches, that might have caused the blast.

The theory that the explosion was due to a gas leak gained momentum Friday after the NTSB, which investigates pipeline accidents, said underground tests conducted in the hours after the explosion registered high concentrations of natural gas.

- Fugitive charges were dropped against a 60-year-old woman who escaped from a prison in 1977 after authorities discovered she had surrendered decades ago and already been sentenced to time served.

Hayman was arrested after authorities, who thought she was still wanted, discovered she was living in .

U-T San Diego reported that Deputy District Attorney asked the judge to dismiss the fugitive charge after a judge confirmed that Hayman had been sentenced to time served.

Hayman escaped from an prison after serving eight months of an 18-to-24-month sentence for stealing clothes from a store.

- Police said a 3-year-old boy has survived a scrape with a subway train after falling on the station platform.

reported the toddler was injured Friday night when he fell at the East Broadway station while waiting for the F train with his mother after his prekindergarten class. The arriving train scraped his head as it pulled into the station.

The boy's father, , told the newspaper that the cut was deep enough that he could see his child's skull.

Moy said a bystander who was a doctor helped care for the boy until the ambulance arrived. The toddler received 10 stitches in his head at .

- is recalling 886,815 Odyssey minivans in the U.S. because a fuel pump cover can deteriorate and cause a fuel leak.

Odysseys from 2005 through 2010 model years are involved. The recalled minivans were made between , and .

According to documents posted Saturday by the , the cover on the fuel pump strainer can wear down from exposure to high temperatures and acidic chemicals, like those found in fertilizers. Fuel leaks can cause a vehicle fire.

said no fires or injuries have been reported.

dealers will repair the vehicles for free, but the company said replacement parts might not be available until this summer. It will notify owners of the recall next month.

- The case of an general accused of sexually assaulting a female captain under his command is set to return to a courtroom less than a week after proceedings were postponed to allow time for a possible plea agreement.

Officials at the said the trial of Brig. Gen. suddenly postponed last week will resume Monday.

There haven't been any major developments since the trial judge on Tuesday sent the jury of five two-star generals back to their duty stations around the world, Sinclair spokesman said. Unless a plea agreement is reached by Monday, the hearing is expected to deal only with procedural issues like whether the judge should designate someone other than base commander with the authority to accept a plea agreement, Zeitz said.