BEIJING: China¡¯s exports fell the most since the global financial crisis, dealing another blow to confidence as Communist Party leaders meeting in Beijing assess the risk from the nation¡¯s first onshore bond default. Shipments abroad dropped 18.1% from a year earlier, the customs administration said in Beijing, trailing the median estimate for a 7.5% increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 45 economists. Reports on Sunday showed inflation eased to a 13-month low in February and producer prices fell for a 24th month.



 Distortions in the data from the Lunar New Year holiday and fake invoicing that inflated numbers last year make it harder to assess the true picture. As the nation chases a 7.5% annual growth target, officials need to contain stresses in the financial system from the credit boom that began with stimulus measures in 2008.



 ¡°People see a lot of negative news coming out of China: growth momentum is slowing and when there is a default of one company they tend to think it¡¯s going to be a systemic problem and spill over into the rest of the economy,¡± said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup in Hong Kong. ¡°These numbers may support their negative views, that even external demand may not be that strong.¡±



 Even so, the drop in exports isn¡¯t as bad as it appears when taking into account the holiday, the inflated base of last year¡¯s numbers, and a weather-related ¡°soft patch¡± in the US economy, said Ding, whose forecast of an 8.5% decline in sales was closest to the customs figure.



 Imports rose 10.1%, more than projected, leaving a trade deficit of $23 billion, the biggest in two years. Trade will be a ¡°clear drag¡± on growth in the first quarter and the yuan should weaken this week.



 INFLATION NOT A THREAT



 China¡¯s consumer prices rose at their slowest rate in 13 months in February as pork prices fell by their most in over a year, a sign that slowing growth rather than rising prices poses a bigger risk to the world's second-biggest economy.



 The consumer price index rose 2% in February from a year earlier, exactly in line with market expectations. And in an indication that China's wobbly economy is fighting substantial slack, producer prices fell for the 24th consecutive month by dropping 2%. Some analysts say at least with inflation clearly not a threat, China will have the room to loosen policies to bolster the economy if it needs to.



 "Low inflation couldbe good news for markets as monetary tightening is definitely not justified," said Ting Lu, an economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. "Low inflation gives the People's Bank of China more room to ease the liquidity situation and tame rising rates." The increase in imports comparedwith the median forecast for a 7.6% gain and a 10 % advance in January. The trade deficit compared with the median projection for an excess of $14.5 billion and a $14.9 billion surplus a year earlier.



 HOLIDAY EFFECT



 The customs administration attributed the data volatility to the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday, which started on Jan. 31 this year and Feb. 9 in 2013. Traders tried to ¡°export fast¡± before the festival and ¡°import first¡± after it, according to a statement on the agency¡¯s website yesterday.



 ¡°We will probably have to wait for next month¡¯s data to get a true picture of the export situation but we shouldn¡¯t worry too much,¡± said Wang Tao, chief China economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong, one of three analysts to predict a decline in overseas sales.



 Exports for January and February combined declined 1.6 %, the most for that period since 2009, according to previously released data, and compared with a 23.6 % gain a year earlier. Wang estimates the underlying growth rate was about 6 %. Reports today from the National Bureau of Statistics showed consumer prices rose 2 % in February from a year earlier, compared with January¡¯s 2.5 % gain. Producer prices fell 2 %, the most since July. Premier Li Keqiang last week set a target for consumer inflation of about 3.5 % this year, the same goal as in 2013.