Over the past few weeks we've talked about the rise in the price of copper, and the relationship copper and base metals have with China, the world's largest consumer of commodities.

The industrial metals have been on a tear, but not many people seem to have noticed.

And another major signal: the Chinese currency. It's been rising at an aggressive pace all year too.

Here's what the move in the Chinese currency looks like relative to the move in copper this year. It looks like the same chart.

A little background on the Chinese currency: For a decade, China maintained a fixed exchange rate policy¡ªthe yuan was pegged against the dollar. One U.S. dollar bought 8.27 yuan. This allowed China to undercut the rest of the world, churning out cheap commoditized goods, competing on one thing: price.

But in 2005, China changed its currency policy. It abandoned the peg. After political tensions rose between China and its key trading partners, namely the U.S., China adopted a "managed float." Under this policy China agreed to let the yuan trade in a defined daily trading band, while gradually allowing it to appreciate/to strengthen. This was China's way of pacifying its trading partners while maintaining complete control over its currency.

Meanwhile, in the thick of the crisis, it had stockpiled $3 trillion of currency reserves (through its history of currency manipulation), and it took advantage of the collapse in commodities prices to put some of the war chest of capital to work, stockpiling global commodities.

When the economy was seriously losing steam a few years ago, as it became clear that China needed healthy global trading partners to continue the double-digit growth, it went back to its fail-safe plan of weakening the yuan again.

China did so aggressively because of this sharp slide in growth.

So here's how it has managed the currency along the way (in the chart below the declining line represents the yuan strengthening versus the dollar, and vice versa).

So China responded to slower growth by aggressively weakening the currency over the past three years, to stimulate exports. But then Trump entered.

While many feared a trade war from Trump's tough talk, you can see in the next chart, the tough talk appears to be working. China has appreciated its currency at the fastest pace since late 2007 (pre-Lehman).

This aggressive strengthening of the yuan by the Chinese central bank may be a signal that the economy is doing better. It may be a signal that the Chinese are heeding tariff warnings and complying with the demands its trading partners have made to play fairly on trade. But the currency strength may also be, in part, coming from the base metals demand. Remember, China stock piled commodities in the thick of the crisis. And it may now become the supplier to the world's infrastructure stimulus.

Join our Forbes Billionaire's Portfolio today to get your portfolio in line with the most influential investors in the world, and hear more of my actionable political, economic and market analysis.Click here to learn more.