Beijing has pledged to maintain a "basically stable" yuan and widen its trading band as it paves the way for the renminbi to be recognised as a world reserve currency and to make room for depreciation to aid its ailing exports.

The country would keep exchange rates "reasonably" steady, improve its market pricing mechanism, and expand the daily trading range within which the yuan is allowed to float, the State Council said yesterday.

The yuan is under mounting depreciation pressure, faced with a stronger US dollar and increasing capital outflows amid its lacklustre property market and the recent stock market rout.

Foreign reserves shrank US$36 billion in the second quarter of the year, after falling by US$113 billion in the first quarter.

Economists say stable exchange rates, more market-driven pricing and a wider trading band would boost confidence in the yuan as Beijing strives to include it in the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) basket.

SDR refers to supplementary foreign exchange reserve assets currently made up of the US dollar, British sterling, Japanese yen and the euro.

"China will keep the yuan stable and reasonably strong against the US dollar to help progress the renminbi's internationalisation," UBS Securities economist Wang Tao said. "After the SDR review this year, which could endorse the renminbi's inclusion бн China will likely allow the yuan to depreciate slightly more against the US dollar бн to offset the dollar's strengthening."

The yuan depreciated 2.6 per cent against the greenback last year. It weakened by one per cent in the first two months of 2015 before regaining some strength from March. Recent rates have remained largely stable at around 6.2 to 6.21.

China controls its exchange rate, with authorities fixing the US dollar-renminbi rate every trading day and then allowing it to float by 2 per cent either way.

"Reforming the fix could take time," HSBC analysts wrote in a research note. "In the interim, widening the trading band, to say 3 per cent, is one way [to] increase the flexibility in the US dollar-renminbi exchange rate."