Attention is focused on China¡¯s trade deficit and growth possibly falling far short of target, but another bit of data over the weekend should not be neglected¡ªChina's inflation rate dropped to 2% y/y in Feb, from 2.5% in Jan and 2.6% in 2013, the same as 2012. As everyone notes repeatedly, you can¡¯t trust Chinese data, but if we were to trust the latest inflation data, we should start worrying about deflation instead of inflation. The PBOC target is 3.5%, by the way. Suppliers to China¡ªlike Australia¡ªare not failing to notice. A global slowdown inspired by a Chinese slowdown is back on the fear-list, along with the inevitable suggestion that the motive for devaluation is the classic one, to promote exports, in the guise of corralling speculators.

The other big issue is the collection of worries about Europe¡¯s institutional infrastructure. We pretty much stopped worrying about it when the peripheral sovereign debt crisis abated, but the inability to work together to put a bank failure mechanism in place is a pretty big failure. The bank examinations, to be followed by stress tests, have to be credible, too. Meanwhile, the Europeans can¡¯t get their act together on sanctions against Russia, either.

We believe Merkel when she says sanctions are a real possibility, but the French are not willing to give up their sale of warships, and evading sanctions is a time-honored business practice in many countries. Europe has long preferred to spend public money on social programs rather than defense, and why not, since the US has been willing to take that expense. But at some point the absence of a coherent European foreign policy is damaging to reputations. As we have noted many times before, a reserve currency is classically the currency of the top military power of the day. The eurozone is trying to redefine a reserve currency as coming from the bloc that has the gold standard of fiscal excellence. It¡¯s an interesting concept and one that is working so far, but it¡¯s not inconceivable that Russia/Ukraine may derail it.

Finally, at least we have a complaint about the too-strong euro from a top figure, ECB executive Noyer. He said "It is clear that when the euro starts to strengthen it creates additional downward pressure on the economy and additional downward pressure on inflation. Both cases aren't warranted at the moment. We are clearly not very happy at the moment."

Noyer says everything is on track and there is no need for the ECB to take any of the many possible actions if ¡°prospects deteriorate or its economy is hit by a slowdown elsewhere in the world.¡± Meanwhile, Noyer claims a plan is on track for French banks to securitize bundles of small business loans, possibly as early as end-March or April and forming a model for the rest of Europe.

Gee, what could go wrong? Well, it¡¯s one way to get non-performings off bank balance sheets. Nobody knows or is willing to disclose how bad the bank situation is in Europe. Draghi is probably sweating over this Achilles heel.

The calendar is light this week until Thursday, when we get the usual weekly jobless claims and retail sales. Until then, everyone will watch Russia/Ukraine, China and the European Parliament, all imprenetrable institutions with untrustworthy news bites. This is the ideal environment for a little dollar strength, or at least a decent Tuesday pullback. (Note that the USD/CAD bounced off support in a textbook-perfect response to an oversold condition.