Throughout American history, landmark pieces of legislation have not passed Congress without shortcomings and controversy. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (¡°Obamacare¡± to its critics) was no exception. Actually, it was to be expected after 98 years of off-and-on reform efforts in health care.

Here¡¯s a look at some other landmark federal legislation from the past hundred years. All had opposition as well as deficiencies that required reworking, amending or compromising.

¡ª U.S. income tax. Congress enacted the nation¡¯s first income tax laws in 1861 and 1862 to help finance the Civil War. After expiring in 1872, the income tax had a short-lived revival in 1894 and 1895 until the U.S. Supreme Court declared it unconstitutional in the latter year. The passage of the 16th Amendment to the Constitution in 1913 made the income tax a permanent fixture and gave Congress the legal authority (Revenue Act of 1913) to tax incomes of both individuals and corporations.

¡ª 1930s New Deal legislation. Initially, the New Deal programs were created primarily for men, as it was assumed that the husband was the ¡°breadwinner.¡± If he had a job, then entire families would benefit. All in all, the New Deal programs (especially the first phase) were experiments with different and sometimes contradictory cures for economic ills. One that became permanent was the Social Security system. However, as passed, the Social Security Act of 1935 actually excluded many individuals ¨C primarily women and minorities ¨C from unemployment insurance and old-age benefits, and no payouts occurred until 1942.

¡ª Civil Rights Act of 1964. Written to end racial discrimination and segregation in public accommodations, public education and federally assisted programs, it was vehemently opposed by Southern senators. It also stirred up the longest continuous debate in Senate history ¨C 60 days! After Democrats redrafted controversial language in the bill to make it more acceptable to Republicans, a Senate coalition voted for cloture, thereby ending the filibuster (trying to talk a bill to death) and passing the most sweeping civil rights legislation in our nation¡¯s history.

¡ª Voting Rights Act of 1965. This landmark piece of federal legislation prohibits discrimination in voting. Despite significant progress in reducing racial discrimination in voting since 1965, Congress determined that sufficient discrimination existed to justify extending special provisions and enacting major amendments many times over the years.

¡ª Medicaid and Medicare. These were created in 1965 as part of President Johnson¡¯s Great Society. Medicaid is a social health care program for families and individuals with low incomes and resources. Medicare is a national social insurance program guaranteeing access to health insurance for Americans aged 65 and older who have paid into the system and for younger people with disabilities. The 2003 law that created Medicare Part D (help with prescription drug costs) contains a confusing and odd deductible structure often referred to as the ¡°donut hole.¡± Effectively but not actually eliminated by the Affordable Care Act, it affects a small percentage of beneficiaries who over the long run will be paying the same co-pay for their covered drugs when in the hole as before entering the hole.

¡ª Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (¡°Bush tax cuts¡±). Amplified and accelerated in a separate act two years later, both laws were passed using controversial Senate procedures. With sunset provisions stipulating expiration at the end of 2010, the tax cuts were extended by President Obama for two years amid prolonged political debate. During the 2012 fiscal cliff, they were made permanent with fixed parameters. To this day, there is considerable controversy and debate over who has benefited from the cuts and their effects on growth.

Richard Padova teaches history and geography at Northern Essex Community College and also teaches in the NECC Early College Program at Haverhill High School.