NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- U.S. stocks edged higher in choppy trading on Thursday after weekly jobless claims declined and as investors awaited Friday's nonfarm-payrolls report for clues on monetary policy.

After dropping at the open, stocks on Wall Street quickly turned higher.

The Dow Jones Industrial average (DJI) was last up 22 points, or 0.2%, to 14,983, while the S&P 500 index (SPX) added 4 points, or 0.3%, to 1613.

The Nasdaq Composite (RIXF) moved up 14 points, or 0.3%, to 3,415.

Ahead of the opening bell, data showed that U.S. jobless claims fell by 11,000 to 346,000 in the week ended June 1, essentially in line with expectations.

Traders are watching labor-market data closely for any clues as to when the Federal Reserve may begin to scale back its $85-billion-a-month bond-buying program, which has supported equity prices .

And European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the ECB's staff reduced its 2013 forecast to a 0.6% contraction in gross domestic product versus its March forecast for a 0.5% decline. The staff, however, lifted its 2014 forecast to 1.1% growth from 1%. The ECB kept rates unchanged Thursday, as expected.

U.S. stock futures had been up modestly, but then gave up their gains and turned negative shortly before the open. Stocks then opened slightly lower, but now are in the black. With the government's May jobs report still a day away, the market may show muted or indecisive action Thursday.

Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak, said it's a little premature to expect a rally before Friday's payrolls report.

"I don't necessarily think the selling pressure's gone away," Wilkinson said. He added that the market's recent move down is healthy and "could go on for several more weeks."

At noon Eastern, the Federal Reserve will release the first-quarter flow-of-funds report that should show continued growth in household wealth. At the same time, Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser is due to speak at Boston College on the topic of too-big-to-fail banks.

U.S. stocks fell for a second session on Wednesday after data showed underwhelming growth in U.S. private-sector jobs. The Dow suffered its worst session in over a month on Wednesday, falling 216.95 points, or 1.4%, to 14,960.59, and the S&P 500 declined 22.48 points, or 1.4%, to 1,608.90.

"I would like to see the S&P go down a bit more before I call it a correction," said Peter Garnry, equity strategist at Saxo Bank. "It's a natural healthy move down when you've seen the trend in equities [...] We'd probably have to go below 1,600 before it turns into something that feeds on itself."

Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG, noted in an email that the market's decline has been modest in the context of the November rally.

"Viewed from the summer of 2009 or so, the S&P 500 had hit the top end of its trading channel and with it, some correction probably isn't out of line," Greenhaus said.

Costco Wholesale Corp. (>> Costco Wholesale Corporation) reported same-store sales for the week ending June 2 rose 5%. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters projected a rise of 5.5%. Costco shares rose 0.7%.

Shares of SodaStream International (>> Sodastream International Ltd) added 4%. Israel's Calcalist newspaper reported that PepsiCo Inc. (>> PepsiCo, Inc.) is in talks to buy SodaStream for $2 billion. However, PepsiCo Chief Executive Indra Nooyi told CNBC that speculation about such a deal is "totally and completely untrue."

Among other markets, the Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.9% as investors grew cautious ahead of Friday's U.S. jobs data. Read: Japan stock losses beat Malaysia's market cap