In this Monday¡¯s recall roundup, we¡¯ll take a look at three separate and unrelated actions from Honda and the Chrysler Group¡¯s Fiat, Dodge and Jeep brands. The biggest one comes from Honda, which has issued a recall for 886,815 units of its 2005-2010MY Odyssey minivans manufactured June 23, 2004, through September 4, 2010, because they pose a fire risk.

In a filing with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Honda pinpointed the problem to a defective fuel-pump strainer cover that may deteriorate allowing fuel to leak out.

Honda said it won¡¯t have the newly designed replacement part readily available in quantities until summer, but in the meantime, it will use an original cover on any vehicles currently leaking from the fuel pump.

¡°Parts to permanently repair the affected vehicles are not currently available. Honda will notify owners with an interim letter during April 2014. A second notice will be mailed to owners when the remedy becomes available, currently expected to be during the summer of 2014,¡± said the Japanese carmaker in a statement.

Moving on to our second recall action, the Chrysler Group said that, on some 2012-2013MY Dodge Durango and Jeep Grand Cherokee SUVs, the Ready Alert Braking System (RAB) might result in the driver experiencing a hard brake pedal feel.

¡°If the driver experiences a hard brake pedal, the driver may not push the pedal as intended, lengthening the distance needed to stop the vehicle and increasing the risk of a crash,¡± said Chrysler in a posting.

To address the problem, Chrysler will recall 18,690 units of the two SUVs and update the ABS module software, free of charge, with owners to be notified this month.

Our final recall also comes from the Chrysler Group, but this time, it concerns 18,092 units of the 2014 Fiat 500 manufactured from April 5, 2013, through January 22, 2014, over a glitch in the transmission¡¯s software.

¡°In certain temperatures, moving the transmission shift lever may have a delayed effect or no effect on selecting a transmission gear,¡± said Chrysler in a filing to NHTSA. ¡°If there is no effect, the vehicle might not shift out of the Park position. If there is a delayed effect, the vehicle may move in an unintended or unexpected direction, increasing the risk of a crash.¡±

The automaker said dealers will replace the shifter module or update the shifter software, as necessary, free of charge, with the recall to begin in April.