PARIS--The slow pace of price increases and nominal wages in the euro area risks hampering adjustment strategies within the currency zone, a process necessary for some member countries to become more competitive, European Central Bank governing council member Christian Noyer said Monday.

"The euro area needs such adjustments in order for some countries, including France, to regain competitiveness," Mr. Noyer said. "This process would be made easier if overall euro inflation stayed closer to the ECB's definition of price stability."

A country's inflation differential with others has a direct impact on its real exchange rate, a measure of its competitiveness. In order to make the goods and services it produces more competitive, a euro zone country would need to post inflation lower than the bloc's, a difficult challenge if prices are overall close to zero.

Euro zone inflation has slowed markedly in recent years, with many analysts raising the specter of Japan-style deflation taking over the currency area. The ECB also recently lowered its forecast for inflation this year to 1% from an earlier forecast of 1.1% in December, but said inflation would gradually rise to 1.3% in 2015. By 2016, inflation should reach 1.5%, still shy of the ECB's target of just under 2% over the medium term.

Still, Mr. Noyer insisted that the euro zone isn't facing deflation.

"Low inflation is not deflation," Mr. Noyer told a panel discussion at the Bank of France, noting that expectations remain firmly anchored in positive territory, even in the short run. "There's no deflation today in the euro area: prices are still increasing, and most importantly, so are nominal wages."

He warned however that the problem needs serious consideration, and that even small signs that a generalized fall in prices and wages is taking place should be carefully watched.

"The situation today calls for a very careful assessment in the balance of risks," Mr. Noyer said. "Precisely because deflation is hard to reverse, even small probabilities should not be neglected and they should be fully factored into policymaking."

The reasons for low inflation are multiple, Mr. Noyer said, but pointed to an important unused capacity and to the recent appreciation of the euro as the main ones.