NEW YORK (CBS.MW) -- U.S. stocks closed mixed Friday as blue-chip issues saw early strength evaporate as investors played it safely going into the weekend.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.50% ended down 71.97 points, or 0.7 percent, at 10,371.84 vs. a session high in the morning of 10,487.54. For the week, the Dow was down 0.4 percent.

The Nasdaq Composite Index $COMPQ rose 9.90 points, or 0.5 percent, at 2,025.47. The Nasdaq managed a gain of 1.9 percent for the week.

The Standard & Poor's 500 Index SPX, -0.55% fell 6.33 points, or 0.6 percent, at 1,134.32, finishing virtually unchanged on the week.

"You're coming into a Friday afternoon with Bush going overseas and people just want to be a little cautious because you never know what could happen," said Paul Mendelsohn, chief investment strategist at Windham Financial Services, explaining the late afternoon sell-off.

Bush is on a 5-day tour of Europe, where he will be attending a U.S.-European Union summit this weekend in Ireland and a NATO summit in Turkey early next week.

On the broader market, advancers gained a late 17 to 14 advantage over decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, while gainers outpaced fallers by a 17 to 12 margin on the Nasdaq.

Volume was a healthy 1.8 billion on the NYSE, and 2 billion on the Nasdaq.

Market professionals said fund managers making end-of quarter adjustments to their portfolios, boosted volume.

Drug stocks $DRG were weak as Pfizer fell on a media report questioning the efficiency of its Alzheimer's treatment, while Eli-Lilly slipped on a regulatory setback for its antidepressant drug, Cymbalta.

Pfizer PFE, -0.61% a Dow industrials component stock, slumped 99 cents, or 2.8 percent to $33.82, after the New York Times reported that Aricept, which is the most widely prescribed Alzheimer's treatment, did not delay the onset of disability or the need for a nursing home.

Fellow drugmaker Eli Lilly LLY, -1.46% tumbled1.8 percent to $71.40, after the company said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration would take an additional three months to review the company's investigational antidepressant Cymbalta.

Merrill Lynch said that although the company's stock was likely to decline on the news, the broker feels any reaction to the delay will be temporary and expects the drug to be launched late in the third quarter.

Titan TTN plunged 20 percent after Lockheed Martin LMT, -1.66% said its pending acquisition of the company could be canceled because a federal criminal bribery investigation of Titan. See full story.

In other news, Nike NKE, -2.07% shares shot up 4 percent to $75.31, after the sportswear company reported fiscal fourth-quarter earnings ahead of Wall Street expectations. See full story.

The markets got off to a hesitant start as investors digested a government report showing economic growth was slower than expected in the first quarter, as well as rising inflation.

An unexpected rise in the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index and strong housing data gave the market the fillip it needed to move higher before the mid-afternoon slump pulled it back into negative territory.

The U.S. Commerce Department's final revision of first-quarter gross domestic product showed growth at an annual rate of 3.9 percent, down from previous estimates of 4.4 percent growth. Economists expected GDP growth to remain unrevised at 4.4 percent.

The market's muted reaction shows a lot of bad news is already priced, with investors quietly confident that corporate America remains in robust health, said Mike Holland, fund manager at the Holland Balanced Fund.

The weaker than expected first-quarter economic growth lowered the odds over at Jefferies & Co. of a 50 percentage-point hike in interest rates when the Federal Reserve meets next week.

"It certainly put anybody who was thinking the Fed would be more aggressive than not out of the game," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist.

On the currency markets, the dollar was higher against the world's major currencies.

The euro was down 0.1 percent against the greenback at $1.2159, weakened by data showing business confidence in Germany back on the decline.

The dollar, meanwhile, gained 0.5 percent against the yen to trade at 107.70.

Gold futures posted a modest loss Friday but logged a gain of 1.7 percent for the week.

Gold for August delivery closed at $402.40 an ounce, down 30 cents for the New York Mercantile Exchange session. See full story.

U.S. Treasury prices closed out the week in positive territory, with prices slightly up and yields mildly down after economic data did nothing to change views that the Federal Reserve would hike interest rates 25 basis points next week

Crude oil future edged lower, with the benchmark August contract down 38 cents at $37.55, and down nearly 4 percent on the week.

In Friday's session, prices were pressured by news that the Norwegian government will step in and use compulsory arbitration to end a deadlocked labor dispute, which has threatened oil output from the world's third-largest exporter.