Germany¡¯s top court rejected lawsuits seeking to block the country¡¯s participation in the European Stability Mechanism, a key part of the euro area¡¯s response to the debt crisis.

The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today dismissed the challenges to the 500 billion-euro ($700 billion) ESM with only minor caveats to ensure the country doesn¡¯t lose its voting rights on the ESM¡¯s governing board.

The ruling is part of a complex web of challenges from academics and politicians to Germany¡¯s role in the response to the European Union debt crisis. A related bid, targeting the European Central Bank¡¯s OMT program, was split off from the case earlier this year and referred to an EU court in Luxembourg.

¡°These cases once again show how the political and financial tackling of the crisis has challenged all European and German institutions,¡± Judge Andreas Vosskuhle, president of the Constitutional Court, said when delivering the ruling. ¡°It¡¯s still imperative to find a sustainable, realistic, democratically founded and constitutional way leading out of the crisis.¡±

The court had given a preliminary order in September 2012 allowing Germany to ratify the ESM under the condition that its 190 billion-euro contribution can¡¯t be increased without legislative approval. The ESM was set up to bail out indebted euro-area member states to fight the bloc¡¯s debt crisis.

¡°The ruling is a good decision for Europe and for Germany,¡± said Klaus Regling, the ESM¡¯s managing director. ¡°With the ESM, the euro-states established a permanent rescue fund. The successful exit of Spain and Ireland at the end of 2013, the progress in other program countries and the economic recover of the currency union as a whole show that the strategy works.¡±

Germany must ensure its domestic budget laws allow timely capital payments to avoid a suspension of its voting rights at the ESM¡¯s governing body, Vosskuhle said.

The judges today also cleared Germany¡¯s participation in the fiscal pact, a deficit-control treaty designed to impose budget discipline on EU members.

¡°The court confirmed that our approach to secure the stability of the currency is constitutional,¡± German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said in an e-mailed statement. ¡°This strengthens credibility and creates confidence.¡±

Most of the challenges in today¡¯s cases, including demands to order which body of parliament must approve ESM-related actions, were dismissed as inadmissible. The plaintiffs can¡¯t challenge these issues in individual complaints relying on the principle of democratic self-rule, the court said.

¡°The principle of democracy requires that the German parliament remains the place where autonomous decisions on revenue and expenditure are made,¡± the judges wrote. ¡°It is primarily the duty of the lawmakers themselves to decide up to what amount financial guarantees are justifiable.¡±

The liabilities Germany has to shoulder under the ESM would only be illegal if the country had to assume a payment requirement that wouldn¡¯t allow lawmakers any leeway to use money for other policy goals, the judges wrote.

The judges said that they have to accept the lawmakers¡¯ judgment even though ¡°risks to price stability cannot be ruled out.¡±

Until January, the suits also included challenges against the European Central Bank¡¯s OMT program on buying unlimited quantities of crisis-state bonds. The German judges decided to separate that part and send it to Europe¡¯s top court to get its interpretation of EU treaty rules at stake.

The cases were filed after German lawmakers in mid-2012 approved the ESM and the fiscal pact. About 37,000 people signed up to endorse a constitutional complaint filed by political group ¡°Mehr Demokratie e.V.¡±

Other plaintiffs included opposition party Die Linke, as well as Peter Gauweiler, a lawmaker from German Chancellor Angela Merkel¡¯s CSU Bavarian sister party.

While he isn¡¯t ¡°excessively happy¡± about today¡¯s ruling, the court added the caveats on budgetary rules that will help in the future, Gregor Gysi, Die Linke¡¯s parliamentary leader, told reporters after the ruling.

Herta Daeubler-Gmelin, a former justice minster who represented ¡°Mehr Demokratie e.V.¡±, said she wished the court had been more courageous in demanding more safeguards for democratic rule.

Gauweiler said that the more important case is the suit against the OMT at the EU¡¯s top court.