Last year, elected leaders rejected the chance to expand Medicaid, forgoing billions in federal dollars. Now Texas residents have been slow to enroll in health insurance, leaving more money on the table and more uninsured in the state.

In Texas, 295,000 had enrolled by March 1. That¡¯s just 9.4 percent of 3.14 million eligible for coverage.

The sign-up rate is lower than the U.S. average and the worst among the largest states.

California had three times more enrollees than Texas. Ten states, including New York, Michigan and North Carolina, had twice the share of the eligible population turn out.

The online marketplace is a key part of the Affordable Care Act, enabling people to sign up for private insurance and receive federal subsidies to help cover the cost.

Two weeks remain in open enrollment for 2014, and advocacy groups in North Texas are putting on a big push. They¡¯re sponsoring health fairs and other events, hoping to spark a last-minute surge in the state with the highest rate of uninsured.

Don¡¯t expect encouragement from political leaders in Austin. Gov. Rick Perry never stopped campaigning against Obamacare, and conservative candidates have continued to hammer the issue in recent primaries.

The state didn¡¯t invest in outreach and education, and received a tiny fraction of the federal funds that went to states that embraced the law.

Clearly, want-to matters and the effects are evident. But the feds also messed up the website, which hardly worked for the first two months. That killed early momentum.

Although those technical problems have been resolved, results have suffered nationwide. About 6 million Americans are expected to sign up through the exchanges, about 1 million fewer than projected initially.

Texas still stands apart. Florida has Republicans at the top of state government, and it¡¯s managed to do much better. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 17.4 percent of those eligible in Florida had signed up by March 1.

For Texas to have matched that rate, it would have had to enroll almost 252,000 additional people from October through February. That would have required a concerted effort.

¡°Why would you expect to fill up enrollment?¡± said Dan Mendelson, CEO of Avalere Health, a Washington consulting firm. ¡°Because a law says so? There are a lot of laws no one pays attention to.¡±

California seized the opportunity. Politicians backed health reform from the beginning, including the expansion of Medicaid. The state created its own well-functioning website. And there was a massive grass-roots effort to sign up residents.

By Avalere¡¯s estimates, California is already ahead of projections for year one. So is Florida, and Michigan is close.

Although Florida has a Republican governor, he wanted the state to expand Medicaid. Many Democratic lawmakers also supported the health care effort.

Michigan has a Republican governor who embraced Medicaid expansion and helped win approval from legislators. The state also has a history of strong grass-roots organizations.

Some have compared the current health care rollout to the expansion of Medicare Part D and children¡¯s health insurance. But Obamacare is a heavier lift.

Politicians eventually got behind Medicare Part D and CHIP so resistance faded. Medicare expansion was offered to people who often had experience shopping for health insurance. And the children¡¯s health plan required little, if any, financial contribution from families.

Five years after CHIP was introduced in 1998, only 60 percent of eligible children were participating, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

Mendelson believes that 75 percent of those eligible will eventually get insurance through the exchanges, perhaps in five years. He expects hospitals and doctors to put more money into enrollment efforts because they can¡¯t count on the politics to change.

¡°We¡¯ve had some success with sign-up events, but we clearly have a long way to go,¡± said Steve Love, president of the Dallas-Fort Worth Hospital Council.

Texas is a rich target, because 1 in 4 residents has no insurance, the highest rate in the country. That¡¯s a lot of low-hanging fruit. In contrast, 96 percent of residents in Massachusetts have coverage, according to Kaiser.

Most experts predicted the sign-ups would start slowly and build over time because insurance is so complicated. It¡¯s also expensive, depending on subsidies and income level.

After the subsidy, costs range from 2 percent to 9.5 percent of income.

Affordability is crucial to the program. So far, more than 8 in 10 enrollees nationwide selected plans that had a subsidy, regulators said.

If that trend holds, almost 2 million Texans could get both insurance and help paying for it. The sooner they embrace it, the better.