Expedited process available for some disabled veterans

Q: I am a disabled veteran. I have a compensation rating of 100% Permanent and Total from the Veteran's Administration. Will I automatically qualify to receive Social Security disability?

A: No. You would have to apply for Social Security disability and go through the application process.

You may have heard that Social Security recently announced rules regarding an expedited process for processing disability applications filed by veterans with a Department of Veterans Affairs disability compensation rating of 100% Permanent & Total, or P&T. Carolyn W. Colvin, acting commissioner of Social Security, recently unveiled a new initiative to expedite disability claims.

Under the new process, Social Security will treat these veterans' applications as high priority and issue expedited decisions, similar to the way the agency handles disability claims from wounded warriors.

¡°Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country, and it is only right that we ensure they have timely access to the disability benefits they may be eligible for and deserve,¡± Colvin said. ¡°Social Security worked with Veterans Affairs to identify those veterans with disabilities who have a high probability of also meeting our definition of disability. I am proud of our collaboration and happy to announce this new service for America's vets.¡±

To receive the expedited service, veterans must tell Social Security they have a VA disability compensation rating of 100% P&T and show proof of their disability rating with their VA notification letter.

The VA rating only expedites Social Security disability claims processing and does not guarantee an approval for Social Security disability benefits. These veterans still must meet the strict eligibility requirements for a disability allowance.

Social Security plans to launch the expedited process in mid-March. For information about this service, please visit www.socialsecurity.gov/pgm/disability-pt.htm. For more about Social Security's handling of wounded warriors' disability claims, visit www. socialsecurity.gov/wounded warriors.

Q: My full retirement age is 66 years and 4 months because I was born in 1956. What is the earliest age I can begin receiving retirement benefits? Is it 62, or 62 and 4 months?

A: The earliest age you can begin receiving Social Security retirement benefits is 62. Although the full retirement age is increasing from age 66 to 67 for people born after 1954, you still can apply as early as age 62 regardless of what your full retirement age may be.

If you decide to receive benefits before your full retirement age, you will receive a reduced benefit. Keep in mind you will not be able to receive Medicare coverage until age 65, even if you decide to retire at an earlier age. You can learn more about the full retirement age on our website at www.social security.gov/pubs/ageincrease. htm.

Oscar Garcia is a public affairs specialist with the Social Security Administration. You can direct your questions to him at: SSA, 411 Richland Hills Drive, San Antonio, TX 78245. You also can email him at Oscar.h.garcia@ssa.gov.