U.S. auto-safety regulators didn¡¯t force General Motors Co. to recall 1.6 million cars sooner because the connection between defective ignition switches and failing air bags wasn¡¯t clear, the head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said.

¡°If we had that information, if GM had provided us with timely information, we would have been able to take a different course with this,¡± David Friedman, acting administrator for NHTSA, said in an interview today in Washington.

GM, the largest U.S. automaker, is facing a federal criminal probe and inquiries from NHTSA and both chambers of Congress as to why it didn¡¯t act sooner to recall the Chevrolet Cobalt and five other cars over the switch defect now linked to 12 crash deaths. A timeline GM gave regulators last month shows it began investigating complaints about the switch in 2004.

NHTSA has come under criticism by auto-safety advocates for not following up more aggressively when it raised the ignition-switch issue with GM executives at a meeting in 2007. The agency never started a defect investigation, a step that can lead to a recall.

¡°We took several efforts to look into this data,¡± Friedman said. ¡°At the end of the day, with the data we had at that time, we didn¡¯t think that was sufficient to open up a formal investigation.¡±

Friedman said NHTSA did three crash investigations, two of which were previously disclosed, to better understand what was happening in instances in which Cobalt air bags didn¡¯t deploy.

¡°We are fully cooperating with NHTSA, and we welcome the opportunity to help the agency have a full understanding of the facts,¡± a GM spokesman, Greg Martin, said.

NHTSA looked into complaints that came into the agency to try to understand how much the Cobalt stood out with peers in respect to air-bag failures, Friedman said. The agency received 260 complaints related to the switches, according to the New York Times.

GM recalled the vehicles when it got new information making a direct connection between the ignition-switch failures, which had been known for almost a decade, and air bags not going off, Friedman said.

NHTSA sent investigators to document a high-speed Cobalt crash in Wisconsin in 2006 that killed two women in which the engine cut off and air bags didn¡¯t deploy. The team identified a failure similar to one cited by GM in the recall.

Outside investigators hired by NHTSA at that time found six similar complaints in agency databases and a GM technical-service bulletin to dealers acknowledging a faulty switch design and offering free repairs to customers who complained.

Former NHTSA Administrator Joan Claybrook asked the Transportation Department¡¯s inspector general to investigate whether the agency failed to meet its legal obligations.

The agency ¡°obviously failed to carry out its responsibilities in this case,¡± Claybrook wrote in a March 7 letter. ¡°No one is evaluating why NHTSA failed to carry out the law.¡±