DC fans, get ready for Super Hero Saturday Night! Warner Bros. Television and DC Entertainment welcome fans into the world of some of DC Comics' greatest characters during a three-hour experience in Hall H. The exclusive evening will feature a pilot screening of the highly anticipated new drama series Supergirl, followed by a Q&A with stars and producers, plus individual special video presentations and Q&A's with stars and producers from Arrow, The Flash, and Gotham. Also, don't miss a special Q&A with cast and producers of DC's Legends of Tomorrow and a peek at the new digital series Vixen. Supergirl - In the vast DC Comics Universe of superheroes, the rich mythology of Superman, the planet Krypton and the House of El is perhaps the most famous and instantly recognizable. Enter Supergirl! Born Kara Zor-El on the doomed planet Krypton, the preteen Kara escaped at the same time as the infant Kal-El but didn't arrive on Earth until many years later after being lost in the Phantom Zone. Protected and raised by her adopted family, the Danvers, Kara grew up in the shadow of her foster sister, Alex, and learned to hide the phenomenal powers she shares with her famous cousin. Years later, at age 24, living in National City and working as an assistant for Catco Worldwide Media mogul Cat Grant, Kara has spent so many years trying to fit in that she forgot to ever stand out. All that changes when she decides to embrace her superhuman abilities and become the hero she was always destined to be. With the help of Daily Planet photographer James Olsen, her bioengineer sister Alex, and the research of the super-secret, off-the-grid Department of Extra-Normal Operations (DEO) and its head Hank Henshaw, who are tasked with keeping the Earth safe from aliens, Kara takes to the skies to protect her world. Her foes include both a sinister extraterrestrial menace and the high-tech terrestrial threat of clever villains with powerful weaponry. From Berlanti Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television, Supergirl premieres Mondays at 8/7c on CBS this November. Gotham - The origin story continues in season two of Gotham, and the stakes are higher than ever, as supervillains more ambitious and depraved are introduced, and a realignment of alliances shakes up the fight for power in Gotham City. Season 2 will witness Detective James Gordon's moral compass wavering, as he confronts Gotham's most notorious criminals. At the same time, he will continue his quest to gain the trust of the young Bruce Wayne, who is on a clear path toward the man he is destined to become, after discovering his father's deepest secrets. After the epic turf war that culminated in the events of the season finale, find out what's in store for Season 2. From Warner Bros. Television, Gotham returns this fall, Mondays at 8/7c on FOX. Gotham: The Complete First Season will be released on Blu-ray and DVD on September 8. Arrow - After defeating his most formidable foe to date and riding off into the sunset with longtime flame Felicity Smoak, Oliver Queen (a.k.a. The Arrow) left Starling City with the hopes of beginning a new life. But will Oliver ever truly be able to leave behind his past as the Arrow, and, if so, what becomes of the team he has worked so hard to assemble? Will Diggle, Thea, and Laurel be left to continue Oliver's crusade without him? And with Malcolm Merlyn having ascended to the top of the League of Assassins as the new Ra's al Ghul, is anyone really safe? From Bonanza Productions Inc. in association with Berlanti Productions and Warner Bros. Television, Arrow airs Wednesdays at 8/7c on The CW, and Arrow: The Complete Third Season will be released on Blu-ray combo pack, DVD, and Digital HD on September 22. The Flash - The cast and creative team behind The CW's highest-rated show of all time, The Flash, speed back to San Diego for their second Comic-Con appearance, bringing with them answers to many of the questions left unanswered in the jaw-dropping Season 1 finale. Following the defeat of Barry Allen's arch-nemesis Eobard Thawne (aka Reverse Flash), Team Flash quickly turned their attention to the singularity swirling high above Central City, which fans last saw consuming everything in its path. Armed with the heart of a hero and the ability to move at super speeds, Barry charged into the eye of the singularity, but will he actually be able to save his city from impending doom? From Bonanza Productions Inc. in association with Berlanti Productions and Warner Bros. Television, The Flash airs Tuesdays at 8/7c on The CW, and The Flash: The Complete First Season will be released on Blu-ray combo pack, DVD, and Digital HD on September 22. DC's Legends of Tomorrow- When heroes alone are not enough, the world needs legends. In DC's Legends of Tomorrow, having seen the future, one he will desperately try to prevent from happening, time-traveling rogue Rip Hunter is tasked with assembling a disparate group of both heroes and villains to confront an unstoppable threat-one in which not only is the planet at stake, but all of time itself. From the creators of The Flash and Arrow comes this superhero team-up unlike anything that's ever been seen on television before. Combining characters from both shows, in addition to new heroes from the DC Comics pantheon, this epic story lives in an interconnected universe and presents a high-stakes feature film experience with edge-of-your-seat action, time travel, seamless visual effects and an infectiously fun character dynamic that's like a Flash/Arrow crossover times one hundred! From Berlanti Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television, DC's Legends of Tomorrow premieres Midseason on The CW. Vixen - Originally from Africa, Mari McCabe's parents were killed by local greed, corruption, and wanton violence. But the orphaned Mari refuses to succumb to the terrors surrounding her. Inheriting her family's Tantu Totem, Mari can access the powers of animals-anything from the super-strength of a gorilla to the speed of a cheetah. As Vixen, she fights valiantly to protect the world from threats like those that claimed her family. This six-episode series debuting on CW Seed this fall, featuring the voices of Stephen Amell (Arrow), Grant Gustin (The Flash), Emily Bett Rickards (Arrow), and Carlos Valdes (The Flash). It follows Mari's path as she first learns to embrace her incredible abilities and discovers the source of the mysterious Tantu Totem's power.