This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... the the ... the ... deal ... he had to be ... a parody of ... the Year ... Empire State manufacturing survey and retail sales and retail sales number was a big surprise there was down to third month in row the retail sales continue to be down ... the first time in three months in row talent that since two thousand and eight ... sites not a very good sign the market ... he the economists expect this number rise ... so ... not a good sign that consumers can will more cautious ... on things in ... it you can play moment companies do the same thing to ... that's a view of the inning and listen for earnings to come right spending how much is it ... but the new Detroit newspaper of ... people ... businesses and was Khona pulling things in illiteracy was going on out there so ... that wasn't a good sign ... audio production that was a surprise that a little stronger than expected a rebound from last month the price so these regional Fed surveys they get various weightings to bring up we speak to ... on you know sometimes there are little scattershot but they're they're good little snapshots of will cause says in your carry a ... little bit stronger than expected will rebound themselves ... now so that is Bounce Island we hadn't yet and it's the hearings that Citigroup was not a great weekend JPMorgan on Friday morning Wells Fargo on Friday from Citigroup this morning ... most of the big banks will report Tuesday and most all the banks report ... really ... Citigroup earnings came out they beat expectations switches ... now ... what that's what the eye ... of the ... bailout is my wallet I hate that the expectations of great riding on them the recitation of the stock is up to the earnings are down from the euro that's the real bottom line ... and you start to break it down a little bit in the consumer businesses ... there were there either flat or a little that can do so high ... this remarkably Businesses Doolittle them and so ... and again there was a lot of of the Capital EP salon accounting things ... get almost a billion dollars and there will move loan reserve losses that there'll east ... side makes the bottom I look a lot that's my they're holding back for bad loans ... it's a good sign it into the you know holding back a bit thin on bad loans ... but it's an accounting estimate earnings of thirty two bottom line is they're about to go ... up and investors like the news for Friday was JPMorgan at least an end and will start leaking a little in the light ... ay ... ay ay ... don't be too interesting things to look for the for the banks ... for one thing ... their compassion Celestia are relatively easy ... on especially to the Bank of America to the huge loss last year and a settlement ... that's one thing is going on compassion ... the other thing is ... that the banks really going on J P Morgan Wells Fargo Wells Fargo's earnings on Friday were all printed wrongly because there are two more mortgage business trends you think that's a good sign for the economy ... the question I wanna see answer going on till it's all over this or that big banks taking business from the smaller banks hoard actually going out of finding new business ... that will yet in ... Italy are a sign of of how strong the economy is new and a time when the bank's ... that's what you wanna look for other big banks finding new business what is taking business from the smaller