(Kitco News) - Stronger-than-forecast growth in U.S. employment last month knocked gold futures lower Friday, with the data seen as an excuse by some traders to book profits on long positions.

The market focused on the increased number of jobs reported by the Labor Department more-so than a small uptick in the jobless rate itself.

Around 9:25 a.m. EST, gold for April delivery was $16.70, or 1.2%, lower to $1,335.10 per ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. May silver was down 68.9 cents, or 3.2%, to $20.885 an ounce.

The March dollar index was up 0.1 point to 79.765. The euro remained stronger against the U.S. currency, although it backed down from its overnight high.

The Labor Department said nonfarm payrolls rose 175,000 in February, a marked pick-up from the weaker trend of the prior two months. Most consensus expectations had been for around 140,000 to 163,000 new jobs.

¡°The market is cueing off of that, rather than the small uptick we saw in the unemployment number,¡± said Sterling Smith, futures specialist with Citi Institutional Client Group. ¡°The base nonfarm payrolls number beating expectations is driving the gold market lower as that puts to rest any little ideas that were cropping up about extending QE (Federal Reserve quantitative easing) or anything of that sort.¡±

Further, the previously reported rise in January payrolls was upped to 129,000 from 113,000, and the December gain was lifted to 84,000 from 75,000.

However, the unemployment rate ticked up slightly to 6.7% last month from 6.6% in January.

Daniel Pavilonis, senior commodities broker with RJO Futures, said gold fell back as the dollar drew some support from the data. Trading in the aftermath of the report likely was seen as a good opportunity for longs to sell in order to book profits on winning trades after the sharp run-up so far this year, he said.

¡°Why not?¡± he asked rhetorically. ¡°We¡¯ve been coming up in the last couple of months. The (economic) numbers are starting to get better.¡±

Pavilonis pointed out there were positives in the jobs report aside from the growth in payrolls. He cited growth in wages, with average hourly wages rising nine cents to $24.31. The unemployment rate did not move much despite harsh winter conditions in much of the nation, he said.

Brown Brothers Harriman said that details of the report might be weaker than might be thought when initially looking at the higher payrolls. Still, ¡°the real takeaway is that the report will not change expectations for the Fed to continue to taper (QE), or change when the market expects the Fed to actually raise rates. This is not until the second half of next year. ¡°

One weak part of the report is the fact that the unemployment rate ticked up to 6.7%, even though the labor-market participation rate was unchanged at 63%, BBH said. ¡°The other and more important element of weakness is with the fall in the work week,¡± BBH said. This slipped to 34.2 hours from 34.3 hours in January, originally reported at 34.4. ¡°This is worth several hundred thousand full time equivalents,¡± BBH says. ¡°It is likely due to the weather.¡±
 U.S. Economy Creates 175,000 Jobs In February, Jobless Rate Rises To 6.7%
 Deutsche Bank: U.S. Economy To Be Key For Gold, Not Ukrainian Crisis
 A.M. Kitco Metals Roundup: Gold Sells Off In Wake Of Upbeat U.S. Jobs Report