General Motors¡¯ profits plummeted 80% in the second quarter as the automotive maker was hit by a $1.5bn charge related to a series of fatal crashes that has triggered the largest series of car recalls in history.

Announcing its second-quarter profits on Thursday, the car company said it had set aside $400m to compensate victims of crashes related to faulty ignition switches in its vehicles. GM has said that those faults were responsible for 13 deaths although lawyers for victims believe the number to be far higher.

This was the first time that GM had put a cost estimate on the injury and death claims related to defective ignition switches that led to the recall of 2.6m Chevrolet Cobalts and other small cars in February.

The compensation fund is being run by attorney Ken Feinberg, who has coordinated other high profile compensation schemes including one for the relatives of victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and those affected by the BP oil spill. Feinberg is expected to start making payments on August 1, and the company said the initial sum was its best estimate but may require setting aside another $200m for payments.

GM still faces a Justice Department investigation into its decade-long delay in recalling vehicles with defective switches and its failure to alert safety regulators about the issue despite mounting evidence that the faults had been widely discussed within the company. Analysts believe the probe could lead to a multibillion-dollar fine.

Since announcing the ignition switch recall GM has recalled a record 40m vehicles worldwide including 29m in North America, its largest market. The latest charge comes on top of the more than $2bn that GM has spent this year on recalls. But the latest results suggest that demand for its cars has held up despite its high profile woes. GM¡¯s north America operating profit fell to $1.39bn from $1.97bn for the same period last year.

"Our underlying business performance in the first half of the year was strong as we grew our revenue on improved pricing and solid new vehicle launches," said GM chief executive officer Mary Barra. "We remain focused on keeping our customers at the center of all we do, and executing our plan to operate profitably in every region of the world."

After the charges, earnings during the period were $278m, down from $1.41bn a year earlier. Excluding the one-time costs, GM earned 58 cents a share, matching analysts expectations.

The company is still facing difficulties in Europe and South America. GM Europe lost $300m, up from a loss of $100m the second quarter of 2013 as the company absorbed $200m in restructuring charges. In South America, GM posted a loss of $81m.