CHARLOTTE, N.C. and DUBLIN, March 10, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Chiquita Brands International, Inc. (NYSE: CQB ) ("Chiquita") and Fyffes plc (ESM: FFY ID: AIM: FFY LN) ("Fyffes") today announced that the Boards of Directors of both companies have unanimously approved a definitive agreement under which Chiquita will combine with Fyffes, in a stock-for-stock transaction that is expected to result in Chiquita shareholders owning approximately 50.7% of ChiquitaFyffes, and Fyffes shareholders owning approximately 49.3% of ChiquitaFyffes, on a fully diluted basis. The agreement creates a global banana and other fresh produce company with approximately $4.6 billion in annual revenues.1 Chiquita and Fyffes plan to complete the transaction before the end of 2014.

Chiquita is a leading international marketer and distributor of nutritious and high-quality fresh food products, including bananas, packaged salads and healthy snacks. Chiquita has a global presence with operations in 70 countries, a sizable presence in the U.S. market and widely recognized brands including Chiquita Bananas and Fresh Express. Fyffes is a leading international marketer and distributor of top quality, healthy tropical produce, marketed under a variety of well-known brands including Fyffes and Sol. It is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, with operations in Europe, the U.S., Central America, South America and Asia. ChiquitaFyffes will be able to access worldwide market opportunities and capitalize on both the growing fresh food business and health and wellness trends by more effectively utilizing its geographical footprint and expanded distribution channels. The transaction unites two well-respected companies that share a strong brand history, and a commitment to advancing sustainability and increasing access to healthy foods, as well as leading food safety standards. ChiquitaFyffes will have an operating presence in more than 70 countries and a workforce of approximately 32,000 people around the world.

"This is a milestone transaction for Chiquita and Fyffes that brings together the best of both companies which, we believe, will create significant value for our shareholders and offer immediate benefits for customers and consumers worldwide," said Ed Lonergan, Chiquita's Chief Executive Officer. "This is a natural strategic partnership that combines two complementary companies of long history and great reputations that have built upon an unwavering commitment to exceed our customers' expectations. We will maintain our brands, all of which are valued by both customers and consumers. The combined company will also be able to provide customers with a more diverse product mix and choice. We know Fyffes well and our shared heritage will help to ensure a smooth integration as we work to bring best practices across geographies and business units to achieve substantial operating efficiencies."

"This deal will be transformative and offer exciting opportunities for the new business. We are looking forward to working with the Chiquita team to build a combined company which is well positioned to succeed in our highly competitive marketplace and which will create significant value for our shareholders," said David McCann, Fyffes Executive Chairman. "Our outstanding employees will benefit from working for a larger, more diverse business which offers opportunities for growth. We believe we will be able to use our joint expertise, complementary assets and geographic coverage to develop a business that can run smoothly and efficiently to better partner with our customers and suppliers."

Strategic and Financial Benefits of Transaction

The combination of Chiquita and Fyffes is consistent with the strategic goals of both businesses, including increasing shareholder value by:
 Combining complementary businesses that provide substantial operational efficiencies and cost savings: Chiquita and Fyffes anticipate that the transaction will potentially provide annualized recurring before tax overhead and operational synergies of at least by the end of 2016. These recurring annual synergies are anticipated to be comprised of efficiencies in the areas of logistics and procurement, among others. In addition to the benefits for customers, taking into account the anticipated synergies, the transaction is expected to be accretive to shareholders of both companies on a net income basis no later than the first full calendar year following the close of the transaction.2
 Uniting two leading companies in the produce industry enhances scale, scope and portfolio diversity: Upon completion of the transaction, the combined company will become the leading global banana and other fresh produce company with greater scale and efficiency. As part of a larger, more diversified organisation, on the basis of current volumes, ChiquitaFyffes will become the largest global entity in the banana category with sales of more than 160 million boxes annually. The company will maintain its significant presence in the packaged salads and healthy snacks category. The company will also have stronger positions in the melon and pineapple market segments as the number one importer in the U.S. and number three distributor globally, respectively.
 Leveraging greater global scale to better serve customers and reach new markets: The combined company will be able to broaden its geographic footprint and distribution channels to access new market opportunities. It will be well-positioned to expand its global supply chain to improve product availability; build on each company's well-established presence in developed economies and further the progress both companies have made in expanding into high growth emerging markets worldwide.
 Generating significant cash flow and a more efficient capital structure: With the full benefit of the anticipated synergies, the combined company would have had an aggregate EBITDA in 2013 of approximately on a pro forma basis, implying pro forma combined synergy adjusted Net Debt to EBITDA of 2.7 times.3 Moving forward, the combined company will also have the potential for further reductions in leverage.
 Expanding sourcing ability in key production areas: With more than 24,000 hectares of owned or leased operations in , the combined company is expected to be able to more efficiently manage its sourcing portfolio.
 Commitment to shared purpose and sustainability: ChiquitaFyffes will continue its environmental and social responsibility commitments, including adding additional organic, Fairtrade, GlobalGAP and Rainforest Alliance certified capacity.

Under the terms of the Transaction Agreement, Fyffes shareholders will receive 0.1567 ChiquitaFyffes shares for each Fyffes share they hold upon completion of the scheme contemplated as part of the overall transaction. Chiquita shareholders will also become shareholders of ChiquitaFyffes and receive one ChiquitaFyffes share for each Chiquita share that they hold upon closing of the merger contemplated as part of the overall transaction.

The transaction values the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Fyffes at approximately $526 million (379 million) and each Fyffes share at 1.22 based on Chiquita's closing share price on March 7, 2014 and a Euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate of 1.39, which represents a premium of approximately 36% compared to 0.90, Fyffes volume-weighted average trading price for the 30 trading day period ending March 7, 2014 (the last trading day prior to this announcement), and a 38% premium to the Fyffes closing share price on March 7, 2014 of 0.89. On this basis, the transaction will result in a combined equity value of approximately $1.07 billion (770 million). The actual values received will depend on the trading price of ChiquitaFyffes Shares following consummation of the transaction.

On completion of the transaction, Chiquita shareholders will own approximately 50.7% of ChiquitaFyffes, and Fyffes shareholders will own approximately 49.3% of ChiquitaFyffes, on a fully diluted basis. The scheme transaction is expected to be tax-free, for Irish tax purposes, to Fyffes shareholders. The merger is expected to be taxable, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, to Chiquita shareholders.

Ed Lonergan will serve as Chairman and David McCann will become Chief Executive Officer of the combined company, ChiquitaFyffes plc, which will be a publicly listed company, traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The senior leadership team will comprise of: Tom Murphy, Chief Financial Officer, Coen Bos, Chief Operating Officer ¨C Fresh Fruit, Brian Kocher, Chief Operating Officer ¨C Salads & Healthy Snacks, Kevin Holland, Chief Administrative Officer, James E. Thompson, Chief Legal Officer, and Manuel Rodriguez, Corporate Responsibility Officer. The senior executives will be located in corporate offices in Charlotte, North Carolina and Dublin, Ireland. The combined company's Board of Directors will reflect an equal combination of directors from both companies and one mutually agreed upon director.

The scheme and the merger are subject to approval by Fyffes and Chiquita shareholders, respectively, and by the High Court of Ireland. The transaction is also subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, including expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as well as merger clearances in Europe and certain other jurisdictions.

Fyffes shareholders holding Fyffes shares representing 25.6% of Fyffes outstanding share capital have given commitments that they will vote in favour of the combination.

Goldman Sachs is acting as lead financial adviser to Chiquita. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is acting as financial adviser to the Chiquita Board of Directors. Lazard is acting as lead financial adviser to Fyffes. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, McCann FitzGerald and Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP are acting as legal counsel to Chiquita and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Arthur Cox are acting as legal counsel to Fyffes. King & Wood Mallesons S J Berwin is acting as antitrust adviser to Fyffes and Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP are acting as antitrust adviser to Chiquita. Davy and Davy Corporate Finance are acting as corporate broker to Fyffes.

Chiquita and Fyffes will host a conference call with the financial community on March 10, 2014 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (12.30 p.m. Dublin Time). To access the call, please dial (866) 610-1072 (from the U.S.) or +1 (973) 935-2840 (from outside the U.S.) or 1 (800) 397-426 (from Ireland). The access code for the call is 9075135. An audio web cast of the call will be available live and will be archived on the investor relations portions of both companies' web sites at www.Chiquita.com and www.Fyffes.com.

Chiquita is a leading international marketer and distributor of bananas, salads, other fruits and healthy snacking products. It is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, USA. The company markets its products under the Chiquita and Fresh Express brands and other related trademarks. With annual revenues of in excess of $3 billion, Chiquita employs approximately 20,000 people and has operations in nearly 70 countries worldwide. For more information, visit Chiquita's web site at www.Chiquita.com.

Fyffes is a leading international importer and distributor of tropical produce. With annual turnover in excess of $1.5 billion4, it is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland and has operations in Europe, the U.S., Central and South America and has begun operations in Asia. Fyffes activities include the production, procurement, shipping, ripening, distribution and marketing of bananas, pineapples and melons. It markets its produce under a variety of trademarks including the Fyffes and Sol brands and employs over 12,000 people worldwide.

ChiquitaFyffes is currently a private limited company incorporated in Ireland under the name Twombly One Limited that was formed solely for the purpose of implementing the transaction. Prior to the effective date of the transaction, ChiquitaFyffes will be re-registered, pursuant to the Companies Acts, as a public limited company. To date, ChiquitaFyffes has not conducted any activities other than those incidental to its formation and the execution of the Transaction Agreement.

On the consummation of the scheme transaction (a) Fyffes will become a wholly owned subsidiary of ChiquitaFyffes and (b) Chicago Merger Sub Inc. ("MergerSub"), a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of ChiquitaFyffes, will merge with and into Chiquita, with the result that the separate corporate existence of MergerSub will cease and Chiquita will continue as the surviving corporation. At the effective time of the merger, all Chiquita common shares will be cancelled and will automatically be converted into the right to receive ChiquitaFyffes shares on a one-for-one basis.

The directors of Chiquita accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement other than that relating to Fyffes and the Fyffes Group and the directors of Fyffes and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Chiquita (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.

The directors of Fyffes accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement relating to Fyffes and the Fyffes Group and the directors of Fyffes and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Fyffes (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure such is the case), the information contained in this announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.

Goldman Sachs is acting as financial adviser to Chiquita and no one else in connection with the Combination and will not be responsible to anyone other than Chiquita for providing the protections afforded to clients of Goldman Sachs or for providing advice in relation to the Combination, the contents of this announcement or any transaction or arrangement referred to herein. Neither Goldman Sachs nor any of its affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Goldman Sachs in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.

Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is acting as financial adviser to the Chiquita Board and no one else in connection with the Combination and will not be responsible to anyone other than Chiquita for providing the protections afforded to clients of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC or for providing advice in relation to the Combination, the contents of this announcement or any transaction or arrangement referred to herein. Neither Wells Fargo Securities, LLC nor any of its affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.

Lazard & Co., Limited ("Lazard"), which is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority, is acting exclusively as financial adviser to Fyffes and no one else in connection with the matters described in this announcement, and will not be responsible for anyone other than Fyffes for providing the protections afforded to clients of Lazard nor for providing advice in relation to the matters referred to in this announcement. Neither Lazard nor any of its affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Lazard in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.

Davy and Davy Corporate Finance each of which is regulated in Ireland by the Central Bank of Ireland, are acting for Fyffes and no one else in relation to the matters referred to herein. In connection with such matters, Davy and Davy Corporate Finance, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents will not regard any other person as their client, nor will they be responsible to anyone other than Fyffes for providing the protections afforded to their clients or for providing advice in connection with the matters described in this Document or any matter referred to herein.

This release should be read in conjunction with the full text of the Announcement. Appendix I to the Announcement contains further details of the sources of information and bases of calculations set out in the Announcement; Appendix II to the Announcement contains definitions of certain expressions used in this summary and in the Announcement; and Appendix III to the Announcement contains the Conditions of the Scheme Transaction and the Scheme. Appendix IV sets out the report from PricewaterhouseCoopers, Appendix V to the Announcement contains the report from Goldman Sachs, in respect of certain merger benefit statements made in the Announcement and Appendix VI to the Announcement sets out the Transaction Agreement.

This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Combination or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act.

Important Additional Information will be filed with the SEC

ChiquitaFyffes will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include the Proxy Statement of Chiquita and Fyffes that also constitutes a Prospectus of ChiquitaFyffes. Chiquita and Fyffes plan to mail to their respective shareholders (and to Fyffes Equity Award Holders for information only) the Proxy Statement/Prospectus/Scheme Circular (including the Scheme) in connection with the transactions described above. INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS/SCHEME CIRCULAR (INCLUDING THE SCHEME) AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT CHIQUITA, FYFFES, CHIQUITAFYFFES, THE TRANSACTIONS AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus/Scheme Circular (including the Scheme) and other documents filed with the SEC by ChiquitaFyffes, Chiquita and Fyffes through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus/Scheme Circular (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Chiquita and ChiquitaFyffes with the SEC by contacting Chiquita Investor Relations at: Chiquita Brands International, Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 550 South Caldwell Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202 or by calling +1 (980) 636 5000, and will be able to obtain free copies of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus /Scheme Circular (including the Scheme) and other documents filed by Fyffes with the Registrar of Companies in Ireland by contacting Seamus Keenan, Fyffes Company Secretary at c/o Fyffes, 29 North Anne Street, Dublin 7, Ireland or by calling + 353 1 887 2700.

Chiquita, ChiquitaFyffes, Fyffes and their respective directors and executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Fyffes is set forth in its annual report for the year ended December 31, 2012, which was published on April 9, 2013. Information about the directors and executive officers of Chiquita is set forth in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, which was filed with the SEC on March 4, 2014, its proxy statement for its 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 12, 2013, and its Current Report on Form 8-K which was filed with the SEC on July 18, 2013. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus/Scheme Circular described above and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.

This press release and related announcement contain certain statements that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of Chiquita and Fyffes, including: the customary risks experienced by global food companies, such as prices for commodity and other inputs, currency exchange fluctuations, industry and competitive conditions (all of which may be more unpredictable in light of continuing uncertainty in the global economic environment), government regulations, food safety issues and product recalls affecting Chiquita and/or Fyffes or the industry, labor relations, taxes, political instability and terrorism; unusual weather events, conditions or crop risks; continued ability of Chiquita and Fyffes to access the capital and credit markets on commercially reasonable terms and comply with the terms of their debt instruments; access to and cost of financing; and the outcome of pending litigation and governmental investigations involving Chiquita and/or Fyffes, as well as the legal fees and other costs incurred in connection with these items. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements relating to the transaction involving Fyffes and Chiquita include, but are not limited to: statements about the benefits of the transaction, including future financial and operating results; Fyffes and Chiquita's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; the expected timing of completion of the transaction; and other statements relating to the transaction that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, expectations and projections and, as a result, are subject to risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements.

With respect to the transaction, these factors include, but are not limited to: risks and uncertainties relating to the ability to obtain the requisite Fyffes and Chiquita shareholder approvals; the risk that Fyffes or Chiquita may be unable to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals required for the transaction, or required governmental and regulatory approvals may delay the transaction or result in the imposition of conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits from the transaction or cause the parties to abandon the transaction; the risk that a condition to closing of the Combination may not be satisfied; the length of time necessary to consummate the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption arising as consequence of the transaction making it more difficult to maintain existing relationships or establish new relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues; the ability of the combined company to retain and hire key personnel; the effect of future regulatory or legislative actions on the companies; and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect.

These risks, as well as other risks associated with the transaction, will be more fully discussed in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus/Scheme Circular that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will be filed with the SEC in connection with the Combination. Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in Chiquita's reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and in Fyffes reports filed with the Registrar of Companies available at Fyffes website at www.Fyffes.com. Forward-looking statements included in this document speak only as of the date of this document. Neither Chiquita nor Fyffes undertakes any obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.

No statement in this announcement is intended to constitute a profit forecast for any period, nor should any statements be interpreted to mean that earnings or earnings per share will necessarily be greater or lesser than those for the relevant preceding financial periods for Chiquita, or Fyffes or ChiquitaFyffes, as appropriate. No statement in this announcement constitutes an asset valuation.

Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Rules, if any person is, or becomes, "interested" (directly or indirectly) in 1% or more of any class of "relevant securities" of Fyffes or Chiquita, all "dealings" in any "relevant securities" of Fyffes or Chiquita (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such "relevant securities") must be publicly disclosed by not later than 3:30 p.m. (Irish time) on the "business day" following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the date on which the Scheme becomes effective or on which the "offer period" otherwise ends. If two or more persons co-operate on the basis of any agreement either express or tacit, either oral or written, to acquire an "interest" in "relevant securities" of Fyffes or Chiquita, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Rules. Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the Irish Takeover Rules, all "dealings" in "relevant securities" of Fyffes by Chiquita or "relevant securities" of Chiquita by Fyffes, or by any person "acting in concert" with either of them must also be disclosed by no later than 12 noon (Irish time) on the "business day" following the date of the relevant transaction.

A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose "relevant securities" "dealings" should be disclosed can be found on the Irish Takeover Panel's website at www.irishtakeoverpanel.ie. "Interests in securities" arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an "interest" by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities. Terms in quotation marks are defined in the Irish Takeover Rules, which can be found on the Irish Takeover Panel's website.

If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a "dealing" under Rule 8, please consult the Irish Takeover Panel's website at www.irishtakeoverpanel.ie or contact the Irish Takeover Panel on telephone number +353 1 678 9020; fax number +353 1 678 9289.

The release, publication or distribution of this announcement in or into certain jurisdictions may restricted by the laws of those jurisdictions. Accordingly, copies of this announcement and all other documents relating to the Scheme Transaction are not being, and must not be, released, published, mailed or otherwise forwarded, distributed or sent in, into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction. Persons receiving such documents (including, without limitation, nominees, trustees and custodians) should observe these restrictions. Failure to do so may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the companies involved in the proposed Scheme Transaction disclaim any responsibility or liability for the violations of any such restrictions by any person.

Any response in relation to the Scheme Transaction should be made only on the basis of the information contained in the Scheme Circular or any document by which the Scheme Transaction and the Scheme are made. Chiquita shareholders and Fyffes shareholders are advised to read carefully the formal documentation in relation to the proposed Scheme Transaction once the Scheme Circular has been dispatched. This announcement is made pursuant to Rule 2.5 of the Irish Takeover Rules.

Pursuant to Rule 2.6(c) of the Irish Takeover Rules, this announcement will be available to Chiquita employees on Chiquita's website (www.Chiquita.com) and Fyffes employees on Fyffes website (www.Fyffes.com).

Announcement with the inclusion of its report and context in which it is included.

The synergy and earnings enhancement statements in this section should not be construed as a profit forecast or interpreted to mean that the earnings of ChiquitaFyffes in 2015, or in any subsequent period, would necessarily match or be greater than or be less than those of Chiquita and/or Fyffes for the relevant financial period or any other period.

References to market position in this release are based upon the parties' estimates of volumes sold.

1 Figure represents pro-forma combined 2013 revenue (including share of revenue of Fyffes joint ventures of $342 million) and is not a projection of how the combined group will trade.

2 There are various material assumptions underlying the synergies estimate which may result in the synergies being materially greater or less than estimated. The estimates should therefore be read in conjunction with the bases and assumptions for these synergy numbers which are set out in Appendix I of the transaction announcement issued by Chiquita and Fyffes on 10 March 2014 (the "Announcement"). The synergies have been reported on in accordance with Rule 19.3(b) of the Irish Takeover Rules by (i) PricewaterhouseCoopers and (ii) Goldman Sachs. Copies of their respective reports are included in Appendix IV and Appendix V to the Announcement. Each of PricewaterhouseCoopers and Goldman Sachs has given and not withdrawn its consent to the issue of the Announcement with the inclusion of its report and context in which it is included.

4 Includes share of revenue of Fyffes joint ventures of $342 million.