Mark Carney has admitted that the allegations over foreign exchange rate fixing are ¡°as serious as Libor, if not more so¡± but has fiercely denied that the Bank of England was warned about them eight years ago.

The Governor of the Bank of England told MPs that ensuring the probity of foreign exchange rates is ¡°incredibly important¡± for the $3 trillion (1.8 trillion) currency market, 40pc of which is traded in London. He added that investigating the allegations was ¡°fundamentally important¡± for the Bank of England itself.

Mr Carney revealed that the Bank is about to appoint a new Deputy Governor responsible for markets and banking. The first task of the new director, to be revealed next week, will be to ¡°conduct a root-and-branch review of how [the Bank] conducts market intelligence¡±, Mr Carney said. It will be the fourth deputy governor - a record for the Bank, which managed with just one between 1694 and 1998.

Paul Fisher, director of markets at the Bank, categorically denied claims that the Old Lady was warned about foreign exchange rate fixing in 2006 - but agreed he could ¡°see why people might think that from the minutes¡±.

Last week minutes released from a Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee (JSC) meeting in 2006 showed that the Bank was told about ¡°evidence of attempts to move the market around popular fixing times by players that had no particular interest in that fix¡±.

Mr Fisher, a former chairman of the JSC, explained that minutes referred to dealers concerns about hedge funds moving the rates by placing big trades in the markets. The fears were not over collusion between rate setters. Even so, last week the Bank suspended an official amid an internal review into whether staff failed to flag up warnings about manipulation into the foreign exchange market.

Mr Carney said the suspension was ¡°not a disciplinary¡± move but one that showed that the Bank was taking the allegations seriously. He said he and the Bank first became aware of the allegations on October 16 last year. He told the Court of Directors the same day and appointed external lawyers to investigate ¡°within 48 hours¡± because even ¡°the fact of the allegations¡± was serious, he said.

Andrea Leadsom MP criticised the Bank for not probing the claims years ago, or at least after the Libor scandal.