So far this year has lost about 3.5% of share value and a CEO a Jefferies analyst recently called "best in class." As it fights to stay relevant in a teen retail landscape that increasingly favors fast fashion like and the company says severe winter weather is making things worse.

Tuesday, the retail chain reported $1 billion in fourth quarter new revenue, down 7% from the prior year. Net income came in at $10.5 million, down sharply from the $94.8 million in net income the company reported in the same period a year earlier. At 5 cents, earnings per share were well below Wall Street analysts' 26 cent consensus estimate. Adjusted earnings per share were 27 cents.

For the full year American Eagle Outfitters reported $3.3 billion in revenue, down 5%. Net income was $83 million versus $232.1 million in the prior year. Earnings per share came in at 43 cents, a full 20 cents below the Street estimate. Adjusted earnings per share were 74 cents.

"The Company¡¯s results in 2013 were highly disappointing," said interim CEO Jay Schottenstein. "While tough macro conditions have persisted in our retail sector, our merchandise and overall customer experience fell short of expectations. We¡¯re taking steps to bring greater focus and excitement to our product offering and better engage our core customers. Our brands remain incredibly strong and I¡¯m confident in our ability to execute the strategic plan and resume long-term profitable growth.¡±

Looking ahead the struggling retailer expects winter weather to continue cutting into sales in the first quarter as it weakens demand. Pointing to its 7% decline in same store sales in the fourth quarter the company said it expects adjusted earnings per share to be "approximately breakeven." In the prior first quarter adjusted earnings per share were 18 cents.

Retailers including Wal-Mart Stores, and Pier 1 have similarly said weather has weighed on sales. Not all retailers, however, are declaring a pinch from the weather. On Monday Urban Outfitters reported mixed results and made no mention of negative weather impacts. In late February Abercrombie & Fitch similarly reported better than expected earnings, also steering clear of snow.

Despite the weak guidance and disappointing fourth quarter earnings, there is hope. Citi analyst Oliver Chen wrote in a note on the results, "We believe AEO continues to face pressure from intense promotions (gross margins down a very substantial 935bps), unfavorable weather, negative mall traffic, & teen unemployment; however we believe AEO¡¯s inventory mgmt., improvements to omni-channel, and changes in management are likely to help stabilize the business over time." Chen reiterated a neutral rating.

American Eagle Outfitters shares were down around 5% to $13.50 in pre-market trading following the report, this adds to a more than 30% decline year-over-year.