Oil ended August on a positive note after prices fell in the first half on fears that a US-China trade spat and an emerging market crisis stoked by turmoil in Turkey would dent demand.Oil has rebounded in recent weeks. The reasons for the recent rebound are many.From perspective of the physical market, there have been recent bullish data points that suggest that the market is tightening. The last week of August was extremely bullish for crude oil owing to multiple geo-political events. Increasing output from OPEC also helped with oil price action, but supply concerns still remain in the market.The concerns over Chinese demand and impact of US¨CChina trade dispute are playing out. The low-level trade talks ended with nothing major accomplished. Instead, both countries activated another round of duelling tariffs on $16 billion worth of each other¡¯s goods.China imposed tariffs on a second round of US goods in retaliation of US tariffs, targeting oil products and coal for first time, and leaving open possibility of including crude oil and LNG next. In the US, falling nationwide crude inventories during the summer driving season when demand peaks and optimism over the overhaul of the NAFTA have helped prop up oil in recent days. Still, stockpiles at key storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, are rising.Meanwhile, worries over oil demand, particularly in China, has been put to rest, for now at least.Consumption by China's independent refiners has picked up sharply in August to around 1.4 million bpd, up 40 per cent from near-record lows in July, as plants return from prolonged summer maintenance. China¡¯s Unipec has resumed purchases of US crude oil after a two-month halt due to the trade dispute between the world¡¯s two largest economies.Markets are discounting slower consumption growth as a result of a strengthening dollar and the intensifying trade conflict between the US and China is also weighing on oil prices. If the United States tries to deal with its growing trade deficit by successfully pushing to weaken the dollar, it is likely to send nominal oil prices surging and rekindle concerns about inflation.On the other hand, if the dollar appreciates further, the resulting increase in local fuel costs will hit consumers in other advanced economies and emerging markets hard, putting downward pressure on crude prices.The sanctions on Iran¡¯s oil will take effect in November, but the countries around the world have been slashing purchases, which are affecting Iran¡¯s exports. Iranian tanker loadings are already down by around 700,000 bpd in the first half of August relative to July.Iran¡¯s oil exports could fall to 1.66 mb/d in August, a massive decline from 2.34 mb/d in July. The exports could continue to fall precipitously over the coming months, falling as low as 0.8 mb/d in November. Worries that the sanctions on Iran will cut significant volumes of crude from the market underpinned prices last week.For Iran, its oil customers have started to drastically wind down purchases of Iranian crude ahead of US sanctions. Iran¡¯s exports plunged by 600,000 bpd compared to July loadings due to plummeting flows to India, Tehran¡¯s second-largest oil customer. Iranian oil exports averaged 1.68 million bpd. This compares with average exports of 2.32 million bpd in the whole of July and 2.10 million bpd in the first 16 days of July.Demand from Japan remained steady, but South Korea is not importing Iranian condensate for the second consecutive month in August. Demand in Europe was up strongly, especially from Italy. Traders are worried that Iranian sanctions could severely undersupply the oil market as soon as the fourth quarter of this year.OPEC and its Russia-led non-OPEC partners in the production cut deal reduced their total oil output in July by 9 per cent more than what they had agreed upon. The total production was just 9 per cent above the agreed upon compliance of 100 per cent, and compares with a compliance rate of 120 per cent in June and an overzealous 147 per cent in May. So, the parties to the pact have been raising production.OPEC-only production in July rose by 40,700 bpd from June to 32.323 million bpd. While falling production in Libya and Iran was not so surprising, Saudi Arabia¡¯s production dropped in July by 52,800 bpd from June to average 10.387 million bpd last month. The lower Saudi production was due to lower than expected demand for Saudi crude.Meanwhile, the treat of US considering sanctions on Venezuela were back again, which supported crude prices. The Trump administration had previously scrapped plans to sanction Venezuela over fears of deepening the economic crisis, but the fears were back on the table.It is estimated that the administration is considering the so-called ¡°nuclear option¡± of banning purchases of Venezuela¡¯s oil. The more likely scenario will be a narrower ban on the export of US diluent to Venezuela.The move would make it harder for PDVSA to process its heavy oil. The spread between WTI and Brent will remain wide for a while as Iranian supply risks won¡¯t be resolved any time soon.Meanwhile, the calendar spread of Brent is in backwardation due to increasing concerns over a supply disruption in the Islamic Republic. Natural gas prices surged to the highest, with Europe¡¯s natural gas market most bullish in years. Higher-than-expected summer demand and a tighter market drive natural gas price futures to levels last seen during this past winter¡¯s supply crunch. The past winter season was one of the coldest this decade, sending gas demand soaring and level of natural gas stored in tanks dropping to below average levels.We have two counterbalancing factors here - a potential Iranian supply risk on one side and the US-China trade war on the other. Going forward, it¡¯s a matter of which factor becomes more significant and that will decide oil¡¯s move.(The writer is AVP, commodity research, MOFSL)