Bank of England Governor Mark Carney will have to defend the central bank¡¯s reputation today as he faces a lawmaker hearing into what it knew about alleged currency rigging.

Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative who sits on the Treasury Committee that will question Carney, said documents released by the BOE indicate it failed to act on concerns the foreign-exchange market was being manipulated. Records of meetings show officials had heard about the matter as early as 2006, more than seven years before regulators opened formal probes.

¡°Looking at those minutes, it looks to me as if the bank could be accused of either complacency or extreme naivety,¡± Leadsom said on BBC Radio 4. ¡°What we are going to be focusing on today is specifically whether people at the BOE knew whether this kind of collusion might be going on.¡±

Lawmakers are scheduled to grill Carney from noon on what BOE officials knew of the alleged rigging of currency benchmarks. The central bank suspended an employee last week and hired Travers Smith LLP as external legal advisers to prepare a report.

The governor is facing a marathon session before lawmakers. Before the hearing on the foreign-exchange probe, he is scheduled to take questions for 90 minutes on the BOE¡¯s Inflation Report and forward guidance, followed by 60 minutes on currency unions.

It¡¯s the second rigging scandal to hit the central bank following its entanglement in 2012 in the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate. Lawmakers criticized how it handled that affair, calling it naive.

¡°They¡¯re clearly investigating it very thoroughly,¡± Leadsom said of the currency scandal. ¡°But I do think it raises the bigger question which is that of the oversight of the Bank of England itself.¡±

Mark Garnier, who also sits on the Treasury Committee, echoed those concerns, saying he has questions about how well the BOE¡¯s Court of Directors -- its governing body -- functions.

This is the ¡°first real test for the governance¡± of the BOE since it gained regulatory powers over banks, he said on Bloomberg Television. ¡°We have to make sure that from now on we don¡¯t have any new, fresh problems coming out.¡±