Shares of hipster-leaning apparel chain Urban Outfitters (URBN) reversed sharply Wednesday, spoiling a breakout attempt sparked by strong second-quarter results late Tuesday.

The stock sank 4.7% to close at 45.48 on the stock market today, after earlier jumping as high as 10% to 52.50 and clearing a high handle buy point of 49.10.

During Urban Outfitters' earnings conference call on Tuesday, management said that same-store sales gains would likely slow during the third quarter ！ to "high single-digits" ！ as comparisons against the last year's Q3 get tougher.

RBC analyst Brian Tunick, in a research note on Tuesday, said growth would be harder to sustain next year, given this year's strong sales results.

Still, Urban Outfitters "is one of the best positioned retailers to benefit from an emerging fashion cycle and strong macro" trends, he added.

For Q2, Urban Outfitters' earnings per share jumped 91% to 84 cents, beating forecasts for 76 cents. Net sales rose 13.7% to $992 million, above expectations for $977 million.

Same-store sales overall climbed 13%, exceeding views for an 11.2% gain. Comps at Urban Outfitters, Anthrolpologie and Free People also beat expectations.

Double-digit growth in digital sales and positive retail-store sales helped, the company said. Demand for men's and women's apparel, and one-piece items for women, was also brisk, the company said during the call.

The chain's UO Rewards loyalty program aided digital demand. Management also said it remained committed to developing its "speed-to-customer" model, which would enable it to better pursue relevant fashion trends for its 18- to 28-year-old core customers. The company also said it wants to bring self-checkout technology to more stores.

"Better retail segment sales lead to a reduced need to take markdowns and an increase in store productivity," CEO Richard Hayne said during the call.

He added later: "Economic and fashion winds continue to blow in our favor."

That hasn't always been the case. Last year, Hayne likened the apparel retail sector's troubles to a housing bubble. But tax cuts and a strong economy have helped revive the retail sector this year, after a wave a wave of bankruptcy filings and store closures in 2017.

Some observers see signals of new fashion trends, which could help the sector. Hayne this year has talked about a "changing fashion silhouette" ！ or a clothing item's shape and cut.

Changes in the silhouette often indicate bigger, macro changes in fashion trends, Hillary Super, an Anthropologie executive, explained during Tuesday's call. The evolution in shape, she said, is likelier to prompt customers to overhaul their entire wardrobe.

However, William Blair analyst Dylan Carden, in a research note in May, said Urban Outfitters was not adequately guarded against abrupt fashion shifts. He said current trends ！ which have begun to revolve around cropped and high-waisted denim for women ！ will have less impact than the last cycle, when clothing like inverted triangle-shaped tops and skinny jeans reigned supreme.

He said current trends "should be taken in the context of a stretched consumer whose spending has been forced into less discretionary categories." And he said newer fashion trends haven't not shown "the same velocity as the takeoff in the early days of skinny jeans."

Wall Street has begun to show some doubts about a potential retail turnaround. Last week, Macy's (M) stock fell, even though the department-store chain lifted its full-year outlook. It lost 1.7% Wednesday7.

Upscale department store Nordstrom (JWN), which jumped after it reported earnings last week, tilted 1.3% lower.

Gap (GPS), which reports on Thursday, dipped 0.3%. Shares were consolidating.

YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE:

Futures Fall On Cohen-Manafort Setbacks For Trump; These 2 Stocks Break Out

S&P 500 Eyes Record; This Retailer Backs Off From Potential Breakout