China\¡¯s central bank on Saturday doubled the trading band of the yuan, news reports said, a move that will allow the currency to fluctuate within a 2% band on either side of a rate set each day by the bank. The move isn\¡¯t a big surprise, but it is viewed as another significant step toward a freer-floating currency at the same time concerns are on the rise over a possible credit crunch and a slowdown of the world\¡¯s second-largest economy.

China has been seen guiding the yuan lower since the beginning of 2013. Analysts say China wants to discourage market participants from engaging in a popular strategy known as a carry trade, in which traders sell a low-interest currency, such as the U.S. dollar, and use it to buy higher-yielding currencies, such as the yuan, and other assets. Read more about the development of the yuan carry trade.

A stronger yuan makes Chinese exports more expensive to foreign buyers. Heavy inflows of foreign funds also contribute to soaring prices for property and other assets, stoking bubble fears.

The yuan, however, has already gone from being one of the most attractive emerging-market carry trades to one of the worst by the end of February, according to Bloomberg and 7% in nominal effective exchange-rate terms in 2013. The yuan has fallen around 1.6% versus the dollar since the beginning of this year, ending Friday at 6.15 per dollar. According to The Wall Street Journal, the yuan is up more than 30% against the U.S. currency since a 2005 revaluation that eliminated the yuan\¡¯s peg to the greenback. . Indeed, analysts at Societe Generale had noted that the yuan rose nearly 3% against the dollarand 7% in nominal effective exchange-rate terms in 2013. The yuan has fallen around 1.6% versus the dollar since the beginning of this year, ending Friday at 6.15 per dollar. According to The Wall Street Journal, the yuan is up more than 30% against the U.S. currency since a 2005 revaluation that eliminated the yuan\¡¯s peg to the greenback.

The move \¡±is coming at a time when a credit crunch should be creating outflows out of China, suggesting that the timing indicates an interest in weakening [the yuan] or at least [inflicting] significant pain\¡± on the yuan carry trade, said Sebastien Galy, currency strategist at Societe Generale, by email.

It also comes at a time when a weaker yuan has been tied to a sharp drop in copper prices, which has also amplified worries about the stability of China\¡¯s financial system.