Other officials involved in the crash investigation have suggested that either of the plane¡¯s pilots might have commandeered the aircraft in order to commit suicide, or that a smoke from a fire in the fuselage might have overcome the pilots and passengers but left the engines and autopilot working normally.

Some investigators are convinced that one of the pilots was involved, saying that no credible evidence has appeared for another explanation. But others say that the evidence suggesting pilot involvement is inconclusive and contradictory. Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia¡¯s defense minister and acting transport minister, publicly denied British and Australian news reports on Monday that the pilot had been identified as the prime suspect.

If the plane did not soar and swoop, but maintained a steadier altitude, its fuel would have lasted longer, letting it fly farther south across the Indian Ocean before its tanks ran dry. So the dismissal of the radar altitude data prompted a change in the focus of the search.

Data from the electronic handshakes led investigators to conclude that the aircraft came down in the ocean west of Australia along what is called the seventh arc, the area of the final handshake with the plane. ¡°Everyone agrees that is where the aircraft ran out of fuel,¡± Mr. Dolan said.

The Australian government started by searching near the northeast end of the seventh arc, partly because that location was consistent with an aircraft that was limping slowly through the sky because it was damaged, or one that had burned a great deal of fuel in altitude changes. Undersea sounds that were initially thought to be from the plane¡¯s locator beacons also pointed to that area, though investigators later decided they were false clues.

Now the search will move hundreds of miles southwest along the arc, consistent with an aircraft flying steadily at a high cruising speed, officials said. Private telecommunications analysts who reviewed the handshakes also concluded that the more likely location of the plane was farther to the southwest.

The specifics are still being finalized, but the new search zone is likely to be a band roughly 400 miles long and about 60 miles wide, straddling the arc.

The width of the band is based on a crucial assumption: that when it ran out of fuel, the plane was being flown by its autopilot, which was unable to control the plane when the engines stopped. In that case, the plane would have stalled and fallen quickly into the ocean. If a skilled pilot was conscious and still at the controls, however, the plane could have glided more than 100 miles before it hit the water.