At some U.S. lenders we observed downticks in mortgage rates on Tuesday, erasing those losses interest rates had following the release of the employment report last Friday. However, this is not the case at Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) as mortgage rates are holding steady at this lender on Wednesday, according to our observations. Looking at the latest interest rate information from the lender, the 30-year refinance loan is published at 4.500%. Also remained competitive is the 15-year FRM, which can be obtained at a rate of 3.625%. Borrowers, who favor non-conventional loans over the aforementioned fixed rate conventional mortgages, can also find some attractive options at the San Francisco-based top lender. One of them is the 30-year FHA-insured loan, which is listed at a rate of 4.250%. Adjustable rate loans can also be used for home refinancing and today the 5/1 ARM is quoted at a rate of 3.250%. Mortgage shoppers who opt for the 5/1 ARM FHA deal can expect to pay 3.250% in interest. More information on Wells Fargo¡¯s current mortgage rates can be found below.

Wells Fargo offers excellent mortgage interest rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those potential borrowers who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some ideal mortgage offerings at this lender.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000 and an estimated property value of $250,000. The property is located in New Haven, Connecticut. The interest rate reflects a 60 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

Please, bear in mind, that the present mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

For more information on Wells Fargo¡¯s home purchase and refinance mortgage interest rates, as well as details on loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, please head over to the bank¡¯s website.