Vodafone is flush with cash after the Verizon sale, and the Vittorio Colao, the firm¡¯s chief executive, has previously expressed¡­

Ono has nearly 2 million customers and the acquisition values it at 7.5 times earnings.

The deal will see the UK company further advance into the ¡°unified¡± communications market in Europe, with Ono described as Spain¡¯s leading provider of broadband, pay-TV and fixed communications.

The share price of Vodafone (LSE: VOD) (NASDAQ: VOD.US) rose a little under 1% to 224p during early trade this morning, after the telecoms operator acquired the Spanish firm Ono for 6bn.

Already a subscriber to our paid services (e.g. Share Advisor, Pro, Hidden Winners)? Please login here .

Register by giving us your email below to continue reading all of the content on the site. Soon you will also begin to receive our FREE email newsletter, The Motley Fool Collective. It features straightforward advice on what¡¯s really happening with the stock market, direct to your inbox. It¡¯s designed to help you protect and grow your portfolio. (You may unsubscribe any time.)

The share price of Vodafone (LSE: VOD) (NASDAQ: VOD.US) rose a little under 1% to 224p during early trade this morning, after the telecoms operator acquired the Spanish firm Ono for 6bn.

The deal will see the UK company further advance into the ¡°unified¡± communications market in Europe, with Ono described as Spain¡¯s leading provider of broadband, pay-TV and fixed communications.

Ono has nearly 2 million customers and the acquisition values it at 7.5 times earnings.

Vodafone is flush with cash after the Verizon sale, and the Vittorio Colao, the firm¡¯s chief executive, has previously expressed that he is looking at acquisitions that could ¡°transform¡± the company.

¡°The combination of Vodafone and Ono creates a leading integrated communications provider in Spain and represents an attractive value creation opportunity for Vodafone. Demand for unified communications products and services has increased significantly over the last few years in Spain, and this transaction ¨C together with our fibre-to-the-home build programme ¨C will accelerate our ability to offer best-in-class propositions in the Spanish market. We look forward to welcoming the management and employees of Ono to Vodafone and working together to serve our customers across Spain¡±.

Vodafone is struggling in Europe at the moment, reporting a 10% decline in European revenue for the three months ended 31 December.

Analysts expect Vodafone¡¯s upcoming annual results to reveal earnings per share of 17p in support of a dividend equivalent to 10p per share.

Therefore, at the current share price, Vodafone trades on a price/earnings ratio of 14 and offers a possible income of 4.5%.

Of course, the decision to ¡®buy¡¯ ¡ª taking into Vodafone¡¯s acquisition strategy and its potential to turn things around in Europe, as well as the wider prospects for the telecoms industry ¡ª remains your decision.

One thing you should understand is that investing in telecoms is increasingly a tech play. And technology moves fast: how long before smartphones offer 5G internet, for instance? To help you stay ahead of the curve we've produced "The Fool's Guide To Investing In Telecoms". This report is free, and comes with no obligation -- simply click here for your copy.