--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- (NYSE:AEO) today reported adjusted earnings of per share for the 13 week period ended , compared to adjusted earnings of per share for the 14 week period ended . GAAP earnings of per share include non-GAAP charges of per share, which are outlined in the accompanying GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliations. This compares to GAAP earnings of per share last year.

The company also announced adjusted earnings of per share for the 52 week period ended , compared to adjusted earnings from continuing operations of per share for the 53 week period ended . GAAP earnings of per share include non-GAAP charges of per share, which are outlined in the accompanying GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliations. This compares to GAAP earnings from continuing operations of per share last year. The EPS figures refer to diluted earnings per share.

, Interim CEO stated, ¡°The Company¡¯s results in 2013 were highly disappointing. While tough macro conditions have persisted in our retail sector, our merchandise and overall customer experience fell short of expectations. We¡¯re taking steps to bring greater focus and excitement to our product offering and better engage our core customers. Our brands remain incredibly strong and I¡¯m confident in our ability to execute the strategic plan and resume long-term profitable growth.¡±

The following discussion is based on Non-GAAP results, which exclude the adjustments presented in the accompanying GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliations.
 Total net revenue for the 13 weeks decreased 7% to from for the 14 week period last year. Consolidated comparable sales for the 13 weeks decreased 7% over the same 13 week period last year. This follows a 4% comparable sales increase last year.
 Gross profit decreased 28% to and decreased 930 basis points to 31.9% as a rate to revenue. The decrease was primarily the result of increased promotional activity and the deleverage of rent on negative comparable sales.
 Selling, general and administrative expense of decreased 15% and leveraged 190 basis points to 20.7% as a rate to revenue. Lower incentive costs and a planned reduction in advertising drove the majority of the decline.
 Operating income decreased 52% to . The operating margin decreased 770 basis points to 8.2%.
 Adjusted EPS of compares to last year, a 51% decrease.
 Total net revenue for the 52 weeks decreased 5% to from for the 53 week period last year. Consolidated comparable sales for the 52 weeks decreased 6% over the same 52 week period last year. This follows a 9% increase last year.
 Gross profit decreased 18% to and decreased 540 basis points to 34.6% as a rate to revenue, primarily as a result of higher promotional activity and the deleverage of rent on negative comparable sales.
 Selling, general and administrative expense of decreased 5%, and deleveraged 10 basis points to 23.9% as a rate to revenue. The decrease resulted primarily from lower incentive costs, offset by higher store payroll and corporate salaries.
 Operating income decreased 47% to . The operating margin decreased 550 basis points to 7.1%.
 Adjusted EPS of compares to last year, a 47% decrease.

Total merchandise inventories at the end of the fourth quarter declined 12% to compared to last year. At cost per foot, inventory decreased 16%, driven by a change in ownership terms. Excluding the change in ownership terms, ending inventory at cost per foot increased in the high single-digits, compared to an 8% decline last year. First quarter 2014 ending inventory at cost per foot is expected to decline in the mid single-digits.

In 2013, capital expenditures totaled , which was above earlier expectations due in part to the timing of investments in our new distribution center and related systems to support omni-channel. For fiscal 2014, the company expects capital expenditures of approximately . Nearly half of the capital spending plan is for new and upgraded systems, the completion of the distribution center and omni-channel projects, while the rest relates to store upgrades, as well as factory and international store expansion plans.

In 2013, total square footage increased 5%. The company opened 64 stores, including 39 factory stores, six stores in and seven stores in and . The company closed 42 stores, including 29 aerie stand alone locations. For additional fiscal 2013 actual and fiscal 2014 projected real estate information, see the accompanying table.

The company ended the quarter with total cash and investments of compared to last year.

Business conditions remain challenging, with severe winter weather contributing to weak demand. Based on a high single-digit decline in comparable sales, management expects first quarter EPS to be approximately breakeven compared to adjusted EPS of last year. The guidance excludes potential asset impairment and restructuring charges.

Today, management will host a conference call and real time webcast at . To listen to the call, dial 1-877-407-0789 or internationally dial 1-201-689-8562 or go to http://americaneagleir2016.q4web.com to access the webcast and audio replay. Also, a financial results presentation is posted on the company¡¯s website.

This press release includes information on non-GAAP financial measures (¡°non-GAAP¡± or ¡°adjusted¡±), including earnings per share information and the consolidated results of operations excluding non-GAAP items. These financial measures are not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (¡°GAAP¡±) and are not necessarily comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. The company believes that this non-GAAP information is useful as an additional means for investors to evaluate the company¡¯s operating performance, when reviewed in conjunction with the company¡¯s GAAP financial statements. These amounts are not determined in accordance with GAAP and therefore, should not be used exclusively in evaluating the company¡¯s business and operations.

, Inc. (NYSE: AEO) is a leading global specialty retailer offering high-quality, on-trend clothing, accessories and personal care products at affordable prices under its American Eagle Outfitters and Aerie brands. The company operates more than 1,000 stores in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, and Hong Kong, and ships to 81 countries worldwide through its websites. American Eagle Outfitters and Aerie merchandise also is available at 69 licensed international franchise stores in 12 countries. For more information, please visit www.ae.com.

"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This release contains forward-looking statements, which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, specifically regarding first quarter 2014 results. All forward-looking statements made by the company involve material risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on factors beyond the company's control. Such factors include, but are not limited to the risk that the company¡¯s operating, financial and capital plans may not be achieved and the risks described in the Risk Factor Section of the company's Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, the company's future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied will not be realized.