After a whirlwind year of failed congressional efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and declarations from President Trump that the ACA is dead, Obamacare open enrollment has begun for 2018. This means people who are not insured through their employers, partners, or other sources have between November 1 and December 15 to select an insurance plan on their own, either through the insurance marketplaces or private companies. Deciding on health care is a confusing exercise under normal circumstances, unless you're a seasoned pro when it comes to the health insurance marketplace (which very few people are, don¡¯t worry). But the political turmoil surrounding the Affordable Care Act makes the situation this year even more perplexing than usual.

To make it all a little easier, we spoke with two marketplace-enrollment experts about what you need to know during this open-enrollment period. Here are eight things to keep in mind as you wade your way through Obamacare open enrollment for 2018.

1. First things first, know that the marketplace is open and loaded with plans.

It may sound simplistic, but health-care experts insist that many of the doom-and-gloom headlines around the Affordable Care Act have scared people off from the marketplace altogether. Experts say that many people believe that the ACA did actually get repealed, or the marketplace will be going away at some point. Combatting that misinformation, often perpetuated by the Trump administration, will be one of the biggest hurdles in getting people signed up this year.

¡°Yes, you can enroll, Obamacare is not dead,¡± Caitlin Donovan, director of outreach and public affairs for the National Patient Advocate Foundation , tells SELF. But it may be harder this year than in years before.

2. Unlike previous years, open enrollment on the federal marketplace only lasts from November 1 to December 15.

If you're looking for a plan on the federal marketplace (i.e., you're not getting health insurance through your employer and you're not eligible for Medicare or Medicaid ), you'll either use the enrollment websites Healthcare.gov , the Spanish-language version, CiudadoDeSalud.gov , or a state website to sign up for a plan. While the deadline to enroll on a national plan through Healthcare.gov is December 15, 14 states and Washington, D.C., have their own marketplaces , which abide by their own rules and may have different deadlines. The plan you choose during this period will go into effect on January 1, 2018.

3. The open-enrollment period is about half its usual length, which means you have less time to sign up and a bigger chance of missing your opportunity to enroll.

The Affordable Care Act is still the law of the land, but not without impairment from the Trump administration. In previous years, open enrollment has typically lasted until January 31, according to Reuters , which notes that many people used to sign up for Obamacare in the last two weeks of the enrollment period.

Halving open enrollment is just one the Trump administration¡¯s moves that can make getting health insurance even harder this year. Healthcare.gov will also be down from 12 A.M. to 12 P.M. every Sunday except December 10 during open enrollment, further limiting people's available time to sign up for a plan. Overall, this means Healthcare.gov will function for 93 percent of the time, in comparison to its availability 99.9 percent of the time during 2015 and 2016 open enrollment, according to Kaiser Health News .

Finally, the Trump administration also cut the marketing and outreach budget for Obamacare by 90 percent , which means many people may not even realize it's time to enroll in the first place.

4. In an unlikely turn of events for this grim year of health-care news, many consumers might actually have better insurance choices this year.

There's a chance you could find good coverage for a lower price this year, Erin Hemlin, director of training and consumer education for Young Invincibles , an organization for millennials that focuses on advocacy in areas including health care, tells SELF. She cites U.S. Department of Health and Human Services research showing that 8 in 10 people shopping on the marketplace will be able to find a plan for less than $75 per month this year, up from 71 percent in 2018.

Also, the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation released data on Monday that found about half of the people who qualify for subsidies (financial assistance with health insurance ) can obtain a bronze plan for a whopping $0 in monthly premiums this year. (Bronze plans are the lowest cost plans per month, but they have the highest deductibles, so you¡¯ll pay more out of pocket. Silver, gold, and platinum plans, on the other hand, have higher monthly costs but cover more services.) To put it into perspective, the Associated Press reports that 80 percent of counties in Texas will offer bronze plans that¡¯ll cost $0 for those who qualify. No county in Texas had that option in 2017.

5. This drop in premiums is actually a result of one of the Trump administration¡¯s changes to Obamacare backfiring on them.

After months of threats, the Trump administration confirmed this month that they would stop funding cost-sharing reductions, which keep out-of-pocket costs down for people who make between 100 to 250 percent of the federal poverty line (around $12,000 to $30,000 for one person, and about $24,000 to $60,750 for a family of four).

Discontinuing cost-sharing reduction payments actually increased the amount of subsidies people could receive. While that¡¯s not good for the long-term viability of the marketplace, it¡¯ll be helpful for consumers for this enrollment period. It¡¯s estimated that around 84 percent of people who shop on the exchanges qualify for these subsidies, which help people who make up to 400 percent of the federal poverty line pay for monthly premiums. That¡¯s about $47,000 a year for a single person.

6. While this may sound promising, you should always shop around before buying in order to make an informed decision.

Experts say that because there has been such uncertainty and change in the marketplace, it¡¯s important to not auto-enroll in whatever plan you had last year¡ªafter all, you may qualify for a cheaper plan this year. It¡¯s also not uncommon for plans to get tweaked from year to year, and that could impact anything from your prescription drug coverage to your primary care doctor no longer being in-network.

¡°It¡¯s really important to log on and update your information, because you really could be getting a plan that¡¯s cheaper and a bit better for you,¡± Hemlin says.

This is especially true if your income or health-care needs changed from last year, because you¡¯ll want to adjust your plan accordingly. For example, Donovan warns against a bronze plan if you have a chronic condition or expect to make more than a few trips to the doctor in 2018, since these plans don't offer as much coverage.

It¡¯s also important to note that all plans are required to cover what the Obama administration dubbed ¡°essential health benefits .¡± These include a yearly check-up, a well-woman visit, and mental-health services . So if you¡¯re young and reasonably healthy, a bronze plan might make sense for you¡ªbut there's no way to know until you do your research.

7. When in doubt, there are informed navigators to help you consider your options.

Navigators and assisters help people maneuver the landscape of Healthcare.gov and the plan that works best for their lifestyle. Best of all, using one is free. This is especially important if you don¡¯t think you qualify for subsidies, or on the flip side, you¡¯re not sure if you qualify for Medicaid or should be signing up for a plan on the marketplace. Navigators will help you parse through your projected income for next year to make sure you¡¯re getting all of the assistance you qualify for.

If you¡¯re not sure where to find a navigator in your area, visit Healthcare.gov's Find Local Help tool or Young Invincibles' Get Covered Connector . The Trump administration slashed funding for navigator organizations by 41 percent , so even if you used a navigator center in the past, it may not still be operating.

8. No matter what, it's important to figure out your health insurance plan now , because going without health care typically comes with a penalty.

This is due to the Obamacare individual mandate , which means that if you don't have a health care plan, you'll pay a tax penalty of either 2.5 percent of your household income or a flat fee of $695 per adult. (There are some exceptions, like if you were denied Medicaid or only went without insurance for a period of less than three months¡ªhere's more information on that .)

Some people find that an Affordable Care Act plan doesn't make sense for them financially and decide to just pay the penalty. Keep in mind that an off-exchange plan could be a better fit¡ªyou don't just have to automatically go without insurance. Health insurance companies can sell plans directly to you through their websites, and while those plans are likely going to be similar to what you see on the exchange, it¡¯ll give you a broader look at what¡¯s out there. While you may not end up loving the monthly price you¡¯ll pay, it¡¯s better than getting saddled with astronomical medical debt that can follow people for decades.

¡°No matter how much the premiums cost, if you have an emergency and don¡¯t have insurance, you could end up at a hospital that charges $24,000 for a sprained ankle. It¡¯s always better to have insurance,¡± Donovan says.
 My Late Husband Had the Same Cancer as John McCain, and Health Insurance Was a Godsend