WASHINGTON -- A group of federal regulators on Wednesday lifted the strict government oversight imposed on big insurer Prudential Financial Inc. It was the last financial company still carrying the label that subjected it to special restrictions stemming from the 2008 financial crisis.

The unanimous decision by the Financial Stability Oversight Council closed the books on its actions tagging selected big financial companies as potential threats. It was the latest example in the push by President Donald Trump's administration to unwind Barack Obama-era regulatory requirements aimed at averting another financial meltdown.

The council tagged Prudential in 2013 as a "systemically important" institution, one so big and interconnected that it would threaten the financial system's stability if it collapsed. The action put Prudential under special supervision by the Federal Reserve.

The council is led by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and includes Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and Jay Clayton, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those officials and six of the other seven members were appointed by Trump.

Prudential, based in Newark, N.J., is the biggest life insurance company in the U.S., with operations around the world. It runs retirement and investment management businesses, with $1.4 trillion in assets under management, as well as individual life and group insurance coverage. For 2017, the company reported net income of $7.86 billion.

ORLANDO, Fla. -- Tens of thousands of Teamsters members earlier this month rejected a five-year contract agreement with United Parcel Service, unhappy with a proposal to create a new class of drivers with lower pay.

But after less than half of the eligible union members cast ballots, one of the largest collective bargaining contracts in the nation has been ratified.

Fifty-four percent of the ballots were "no" votes, but under a Teamster rule, a rejection requires two-thirds of the voters to vote down the contract when less than half of eligible members participate.

Now, many Teamsters members are angry, divided and feel like their union leaders have betrayed them.

"This destroys unions," said Sean Mason, a UPS driver in the Orlando, Fla., area. "They had 54 percent of the people vote no, and they ignored the vote."

Atlanta-based UPS has one of the nation's largest unionized workforces, with the Teamsters representing around 240,000 UPS drivers, package sorters, loaders and clerks. UPS workers represent the largest share of members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

During the Oct. 5 UPS vote, 44 percent of eligible Teamsters members cast ballots for the national contract.

GALVESTON, Texas -- Officials say more than $100 million from a settlement after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has been spent on restoring Texas coastal habitat.

The Houston Chronicle reports that details were announced Monday night during a public meeting in Galveston. Trustees of the Texas Implementation Group offered the update on how the overall $238 million in damages was being spent.

The money comes from a 2016 settlement with BP, which leased the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded in April 2010. The accident killed 11 workers and dumped millions of barrels of oil into the Gulf.

Texas funds so far have been used to restore sea turtle, bird, and oyster coastal and wetland habitats, plus recreational improvements such as artificial reefs for fishing and diving.

The descendants of Campbell Soup Co.'s founder are standing by the company's directors, dealing a blow to activist investor Dan Loeb's effort to oust the entire board.

Relatives of John Dorrance -- who together hold about 41 percent of the Camden, N.J.-based company's shares -- will vote for its current board at its annual meeting on Nov. 29, according to a statement Wednesday. Those holders include siblings Bennett Dorrance and Mary Alice Dorrance Malone, grandchildren of John Dorrance who have sat on the company's board for nearly 30 years.

The activist investor has criticized the company's performance and the outcome of its recent strategic review, which fell short of his demands for a sale of the company. Campbell instead said it planned to sell its international and fresh-food businesses.

The support from the Dorrance family is "unsurprising," Loeb's New York hedge fund Third Point said in a statement, which noted that the company traded down Wednesday.

"It is hardly news that the entrenched family owners, who have long enriched themselves at the expense of shareholders and the company, seek to preserve their board seats and reign of error," Third Point said.

BEIJING -- Electric auto brand Tesla Inc. said it signed an agreement Wednesday to secure land in Shanghai for its first factory outside the United States, pushing ahead with development despite mounting U.S.-Chinese trade tensions.

Tesla, based in Palo Alto, Calif., announced plans for the Shanghai factory in July after the Chinese government said it would end restrictions on full foreign ownership of electric vehicle makers to speed up industry development. Tesla said it signed a "land transfer agreement" on a 210-acre site in the Lingang district in southeastern Shanghai.

Those plans have gone ahead despite tariff increases by Washington and Beijing on billions of dollars of each other's goods in a dispute over Chinese technology policy. U.S. imports targeted by Beijing's penalties include electric cars.

China is the biggest global electric vehicle market and Tesla's second-largest after the United States.

Tesla joins global automakers including General Motors Co., Volkswagen AG and Nissan Motor Corp. that are pouring billions of dollars into manufacturing electric vehicles in China.

Local production would eliminate risks from tariffs and other import controls. It would help Tesla develop parts suppliers to support service and make its vehicles more appealing to mainstream Chinese buyers.