iNVEZZ.com, Monday, March 17: Vodafone Group Plc (LON:VOD) has agreed to buy Spain¡¯s largest cable company Ono for 7.2 billion (6 billion), including debt. The price tag implies a multiple of 10.4 times Ono's operating free cash flow, broadly in line with recent deals in the European cable and telecoms sector.

The world¡¯s second largest mobile phone company announced the move in a statement to the London Stock Exchange earlier this morning. In today¡¯s trading Vodafone shares were up 1.1 percent at 224.60p as of 9:16 UTC

"The combination of Vodafone and Ono creates a leading integrated communications provider in Spain and represents an attractive value creation opportunity for Vodafone,¡± Vodafone chief executive officer Vittorio Colao commented in today¡¯s statement.

¡°We look forward to welcoming the management and employees of Ono to Vodafone and working together to serve our customers across Spain," he added.

Meanwhile, Ono chairman Jos¨¦ Mar¨ªa Castellano R¨ªos commented that the deal reflected his company¡¯s attractive position as ¡°Spain's leading provider of high speed broadband, premium pay-TV and fixed communications¡±.

Vodafone expects to see significant benefits from the acquisition. The UK company pointed out that Ono is a highly attractive standalone business and has the largest next-generation network in Spain, which covers 7.2 million homes across 13 of the country¡¯s 17 regions. It offers fixed and mobile communications and television services to approximately 1.9 million customers. Ono¡¯s network provides broadband speeds of up to 200 Mb per second, significantly faster than competing cable companies in the country.

Last year Ono reported revenue of 1.6 billion and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of 680 million.

Ono¡¯s acquisition is also expected to provide a significant boost to Vodafone¡¯s ¡®unified communications strategy¡¯ in an important European market. The deal will allow the UK telecoms giant to take advantage on the rapid increase in adoption of unified communications products and services in Spain. The company also sees significant potential to accelerate growth by leveraging its extensive distribution and marketing capabilities and through cross-selling to each company¡¯s customer base.

The Ono deal represents a continuation of Vodafone¡¯s push to rebuild its European operations. Last year the company secured the acquisition of Germany¡¯s largest cable company, Kabel Deutschland, in a 7.5 billion deal. The British company said on Friday that the integration of its existing operations in Germany and Kabel would begin from April 1.

Deep-pocketed Vodafone has indicated that it plans to spend 25 billion of the 84 billion it generated from the sale of its stake in US company, Verizon Wireless, to invest in its core European networks.

As of 9:02 UTC buy Vodafone shares at 224.00p

As of 9:02 UTC sell Vodafone shares at 223.90p