While major tech companies are rushing into the smartwatch race, there are some independent startups looking to compete with these giants. One such bold company is Exetech, founded by Fabiano Alfredo Zamuner, which focuses on making wearable tech. The company just recently released its first smartwatch, the Exetech XS-3, which works like any other smartwatch, but without the assistance of a smartphone.

Exetech XS-3 is one of the few special breeds of smartwatches out there that does not require a smartphone connection to function. In fact, the company aims to replace the user¡¯s smartphone with this innovative product.

Only few companies have managed to release such standalone smartwatches, with the notable one being Neptune¡¯s Pine. So, this can actually be considered as a niche market.

Looks wise, XS-3 is like any other smartwatch in the market. While it may not be as slim as other devices, it¡¯s still small and compact enough to be considered as a regular watch. The core is made of thick plastic which is worn by the provided rubber strap. On each side of the thick bezel, there are two navigation buttons. Also, there¡¯s a 2MP camera fitted on the middle button on the right and a micro-USB charging port which also acts as the headphone in port on the left.

While the design is nothing spectacular, what makes this device special is its ability to function like a smartphone. It comes with a dual core processor with 2GB memory, which can be expanded via a Micro SD card slot provided. The micro-Sim and the SD card slot are housed under the battery, which is also replaceable.

According to the company, the 420 mAh battery can last for around 18 hours. However, with constant usage, this figure drops to around 6 to 7 hours. Also, it would support Google Play store, which means it would run apps just like any other smartphone. Currently, there are thousands of apps supported by the device, which is expected to increase further in the coming months.

Exetech XS 3 is currently available in Black, with an expected white version hitting the market soon. The device is priced at Euro 385 which translates to around $485 USD.

Connectivity: 3G WCDMA , HSDPA,2G GPRS , EDGE (GSM 850/900/1800/1900/2100 Mhz)

 Operating system: Android 4.0

 Display: Touch screen capacitive 1.54 inches, Resolution: 240¡Á240

 Processor: MTK 6577 dual-core

 Internal Memory: 2 GB Est Memory, expandable with Micro SD up to 32 GB

 Size: Height 6.46 x Width 4.40 x Thickness 1.76 (case) (in cms)

 Sensors: GPS, G Sensor

 Battery: 420 mAh

For comments and suggestions, leave a message in the comments section below. Like and Follow our Facebook page for more stories and to stay up-to-date with the latest happenings.