16.42 That's where we'll end for today - thanks for reading and go to our finance page for more breaking news.

16.40 European markets have closed with FTSE100 down 0.35pc to 6689.45, while Frankfurt's Dax slipped 0.87pc. But France's CAC is up 0.1pc and Spain's IBEX is up 0.3pc.

In Wall Street stocks are in the red, with the Dow dow 0.42pc and the S&P 500 down 0.26pc.

<noframe>Twitter: ECB - ECB launches competition to design site-specific works of art for its new premises <a href="http://t.co/MMse1zsPCX" target="_blank">http://t.co/MMse1zsPCX</a></noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Katie Martin - unleash the trolls! RT <a href="http://www.twitter.com/ecb" target="_blank">@ecb</a>: ECB launches competition to design site-specific works of art for its new premises <a href="http://t.co/x76LKLi8OT" target="_blank">http://t.co/x76LKLi8OT</a></noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: the wise one - <a href="http://www.twitter.com/ecb" target="_blank">@ecb</a> waste more taxpayers money...great!</noframe>

15.50 A 3.29pc fall in Vodafone is weighing on the FTSE 100, which is still down 0.34pc.

Analysts and traders attributed Vodafone's drop to the fact the company had to raise its initial bid for Spanish cable group Ono.

15.35 Mt. Gox, the Bitcoin exchange that filed for bankruptcy in Tokyo last month, started a related case in the US, blaming its failure on a software flaw in the digital currency.

Mt. Gox asked the US Bankruptcy Court in Dallas to protect any US-based assets the company may have while it tries to reorganize under the authority of the Japanese court. Mt. Gox last month said almost 750,000 customer Bitcoins and 100,000 of its own were missing and were probably stolen.

¡°The facts known to date indicate that it was caused or related to a flaw in the software algorithm that underlies Bitcoin, and ¡®hacking¡¯ attacks of one or more persons,¡± Mt. Gox Chief Executive Officer Mark Karpeles said in a sworn statement filed in Dallas.

The Tokyo-based exchange filed for bankruptcy in a Japanese court after losing Bitcoins worth about $473m at the time-about 7pc of all Bitcoins in existence worldwides.

The US bankruptcy case was filed partly to halt lawsuits against the company while it tries to reorganize in Japan and repay creditors. Last month, Mt. Gox was sued by an Illinois resident accusing it of misappropriation and fraud in federal court in Chicago.

15.17 Cypriot Central Bank governor Panicos Demetriades has submitted his resignation, which was accepted by President Nicos Anastasiades, an official statement said.

Reuters reported that the reason for his resignation was not immediately clear, but he has had testy relations with the centre-right government, and Anastasiades had said in September he was seeking his removal. Demetriades has been in his post for almost two years.

Demetriades represents Cyprus on the ECB governing council. The ECB had no immediate comment. A statement from Cyprus's presidency said Demetriades would work out his notice and step down on April 10.

The Governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus, Mr Panicos Demetriades, today submitted his resignation to the President of the Republic, Mr Nicos Anastasiades, and the resignation was accepted.

According to Mr Demetriades¡¯ contract a month¡¯s notice is required, and for that reason his resignation will be effective as of April 10. During this period, Mr Demetriades will deal with the pending issues before him and will brief his successor.

Mr Demetriades¡¯ letter of resignation was handed today, in Brussels, to the Minister of Finance, Mr Harris Georgiades, in the presence of a European Central Bank representative.

The President of the Republic thanked Mr Demetriades for his contribution in the great effort that has been undertaken over the past year to rescue the country from bankruptcy and to stabilize the financial sector.

15.05 Ice cream cones and 99 flakes are in decline as consumers buy tubs and luxury brands, according to The Independent.

In 2013, we bought 22m more 500ml tubs of ice cream than the year before. But cones proved less popular, with volume sales down 5.5 per cent.

In an attempt to fight the luxury brands, Cornetto manufacturer has revealed the Choc 'n' Ball, which is being marketed as the ¡°ultimate manly ice cream¡±.

Unilever said it "caters specifically for male consumers seeking a substantial snack offering".

Capita named as preferred bidder by the Ministry of Defence

14.47 Capita has been selected as preferred bidder by the Ministry of Defence (MOD) to be the strategic business partner for the Defence Infrastructure Organisation (DIO), according to a statement by Capita.

The company will lead a partnership to "manage and transform" the UK's national and international defence infrastructure.

The 10-year contract could be worth around 400 million to Capita.

<noframe>Twitter: Peter Hoskins - <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Capita" target="_blank">#Capita</a> named as preferred bidder for 10-year contract to manage UK government's &#163;21bn military estate, gaining edge over rival <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Serco" target="_blank">#Serco</a>.</noframe>

14.32 Following disappointing figures from Japan and China, global shares have fallen with Wall Street opening down.

Dow Jones is in the red 0.55pc and S&P 500 has slipped 0.36pc.

 

 Meanwhile in Europe, FTSE is down 0.39pc, Spain's IBEX is down 0.21pc and Germany's DAX is down 0.94pc.

The price of a pint of lager...

14.22 The cost of a price of lager has increased by 1948pc over the last 40pc, behind only gold.

<noframe>Twitter: Mark O'Byrne - Petrol or gasoline costs a whopping 18 times more than 40 years ago ... <a href="http://t.co/WGPBeEBkdZ" target="_blank">http://t.co/WGPBeEBkdZ</a> <a href="http://t.co/Mc3XS1uaef" target="_blank">http://t.co/Mc3XS1uaef</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Food" target="_blank">#Food</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Pounds" target="_blank">#Pounds</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Gold" target="_blank">#Gold</a></noframe>

Gold core has the full details here.

14.06 Robert Cole, Reuters Breakingviews columnist, believes the deal between Fyffes and Chiquitais ripe for scrutiny.

It is hardly a mega-deal on the scale of AOL/Time Warner, but when it comes to fresh fruit, the $1bn merger of Fyffes and Chiquita is big bananas. If the combination goes ahead, the enlarged group will become a powerhouse for pineapples, melons and prepared salads, selling $4.6bn worth of produce every year. But as a banana behemoth, ChiquitaFyffes will face scrutiny before its creation is approved.

The terms give shareholders in North Carolina-based Chiquita 50.7pc of the new entity, with Fyffes, headquartered in Ireland, taking the rest. That bakes in a premium for Fyffes, which would otherwise naturally own 42pc of the group, pro-rata, for its contribution to the pair's $876m combined value using Friday's share prices.

What Chiquita shareholders lose in paying the premium, they should make back, and more, on the synergies. These are put at $40m annually before tax. Assume they have a net present value of $300m and the new group could be worth close to $1.2 bn.

The biggest potential banana skin is antitrust and the market is already wary. Shares in Fyffes were trading at 89 euro cents at the end of last week. They jumped to around 1.30 euros as the deal was outlined on March 10. The increase reflects the merger premium, but falls short of the full synergy value.

13.41 Investor Carl Icahn has written an open letter criticising eBay's chief executive and is calling for PayPaul to split from eBay.

eBay CEO John Donahoe oversaw a premature sale of Skype at a diminished price that resulted in eBay stockholders losing over $4 billion as compared to the sale of Skype to Microsoft 18 months later.

But Pierre Omidyar, founder and chairman of eBay, has hit back, accusing Mr Icahn of "making unsubstantiated claims about our company -- and deliberately impugning the integrity of our directors".

His letter is here and there are several other updates from the company here.

13.32 Former Russian oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky has submitted a request to settle permanently in Switzerland, a spokeswoman said.

Once Russia's richest man, Khodorkovsky was jailed in 2003 for fraud and tax evasion. He was seen by many as a political prisoner, the highest-profile victim of President Vladimir Putin's campaign to rein in the "oligarchs" who had made fortunes snapping up assets in the chaotic years of Boris Yeltsin's rule following the collapse of Soviet communism. Khodorkovsky, who was released from a Russian prison camp near the Arctic Circle last December, has spent much of the last few months travelling.

The 50-year-old former oil tycoon was granted a three-month Schengen visa by Switzerland at the end of last year and arrived by train in Basel from Berlin at the start of January to take his two youngest sons back to school.

A spokeswoman for Khodorkovsky confirmed he had submitted a request for permanent residency in Switzerland, but she declined to give any further details on where exactly he was hoping to make his home.

13.15 The Bank of England¡¯s stability board is ¡°keeping a beady eye¡± on Britain¡¯s roaring property market, Charlie Bean has said, amid warnings that the economic recovery is too reliant on house prices and consumer spending.

Mr Bean, the deputy governor of monetary policy at the Bank, told the North East Chamber of Commerce that there were ¡°unmistakable signs that a robust recovery is under way¡± in the UK. But he said that so far not enough growth was being built on the stable pillars of business investment, higher productivity and exports.

To date much of the recovery has been on the back of higher consumer spending and housing investment,¡± he said.

He pointed out that last year consumer spending rose 2.2pc while housing investment jumped almost 10pc. See our full story here.

13.07 Gold was little changed below a four-month high in New York as investors weighed the crisis in Ukraine against the case for the Federal Reserve to keep reducing stimulus

Gold posted a weekly gain of 1.3pc last week, even after dropping 1pc on March 7, as tension between Ukraine and Russia escalated, boosting demand for a haven. Pro-Russian forces advanced in the Crimean peninsula, ignoring Western calls to halt a military takeover before the region holds a referendum on separation.

Bullion rose 11pc this year, rebounding from the biggest annual drop since 1981, even as the Fed announced a $10bn reduction to bond buying at each of its past two meetings, leaving purchases at $65bn.

12.30 Back in the stock market, Vodafone is a heavy faller, losing 2.7pc following reports the telecoms group has raised its bid for Spanish cable group Ono to 7bn. The wider FTSE 100, hindered by broad-based weakness among the mining shares, is now down 2 points at 6,710.

12.17 McDonald¡¯s, the world¡¯s largest restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months fell 0.3pc in February as its US business slumped for the fourth straight month. Analysts had estimated a 0.1 pc decline.

McDonald¡¯s, which has more than 14,200 US locations, has been trying to attract Americans by advertising coffee and breakfast foods. The Big Mac seller recently began testing raspberry pastries in San Diego stores as fast-food chains compete to lure diners amid shaky consumer confidence.

US sales in February were hurt by ¡°severe winter weather,¡± the company said in the statement.

11.55 Malaysian Airline System fell to an all-time low after the national carrier¡¯s Flight 370 disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing two days ago.

The stock sank 4pc to 24 sen for its lowest close on record after falling as much as 18pc. It was the most active on Kuala Lumpur¡¯s exchange with 385m shares traded. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index slid 0.6pc and the ringgit slumped 0.8pc against the dollar.

Investigators from nine countries are struggling to solve the mystery of the missing Malaysian jet, as Vietnamese forces today failed to find the airplane debris they had spotted yesterday off the country¡¯s southern coast. The prospect of terrorism is being investigated after Austria and Italy said passports used by two male passengers were stolen from their citizens.

What was initially believed to be a piece of debris from the missing Malaysia Airlines plane

11.31 Last week, the New York Times published a piece claiming that Britain's main business is laundering oligarch's dirty billions and London is a city where the uber-rich are celebrated "and migrants are exploited but that pretends to be a multicultural utopia".

Now, we probably shouldn't pay any attention to such groundless insults. We should probably hold our heads high and ignore it.

But... just for the fun of it, here's a very full rebuttal from Sean Thomas.

So there are no Slavic oligarchs living it up in the Shard. There are no naked hookers stretched out on tiger skins. There are no mile-high apartments full of trillionaire villains. There are no incomprehensible derivatives being traded beneath them. There are no elevators ¡°full¡± of African cleaners ¨C as the place is all but empty. So most of these ¡°non-existent people¡± are, in point of fact, non-existent, which is probably why Londoners regard them as not existing.

Apart from that, great article.

Expect to see more food mergers?

11.17 Parmjit Singh, head of the food and drink group at Eversheds global law firm, believes the news of Fyffes and Chiquita banana companies merging is just a taste of things to come.

The news that Fyffes and Chiquita are merging will not come as a surprise. For many food producers this is a natural next step to meet the pressure to achieve cost efficiencies, improve shareholder returns and attract investment. Retailers have enjoyed strong negotiating positions over the last decade with food producers and these types of mergers are intended to help food producers to gain some parity on those negotations. As consumer confidence improves around the world, expect to see more of these types of mergers in the global food and drink sector.

11.06 Russia¡¯s incursion into Ukraine has led to concerns that corn supplies will be disrupted if tensions escalated, and has caused record options trading in a security that tracks corn.

Investors are piling into contracts on the Teucrium Corn Fund, which tracks US prices for the grain used in everything from motor fuel to soft-drink sweetener. A record of more than 16,000 call options giving the right to buy the exchange-traded fund changed hands last week as prices for bullish contracts rose to a three-year high compared with puts.

Joe Vaclavik, president of Standard Grain brokerage and consulting firm said:

Export demand has been very good.The Ukraine story has fueled the fire.

10.52 The ONS has admitted that 582,935 employees were on zero-hours contracts last year, more than double the 250,000 estimated by the Government in AUgust.

Zero-hours contracts are used in social care, retail and hotels, and mean the employees are not required to work a set number of hours and are only paid for hours worked.

But ONS has said the figures may change, as the question depends on employees correctly knowing their terms of employmenbt.

ONS's first employer-based estimates of zero-hours contracts are expected in April.

<noframe>Twitter: Lucy Rigby - ONS says that last year 582,935 people in Britain were employed on <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23zerohours" target="_blank">#zerohours</a> contracts. That's more than double the Govt's estimate.</noframe>

10.42 French industrial production unexpectedly fell for a second month and business confidence declined, indicating the recovery may struggle to build momentum this quarter.

Output dropped 0.2pc in January from December, led by electricity and gas production, the country¡¯s statistics office in Paris said today. Economists had forecast a 0.3pc increase. A separate report showed an index of business sentiment declined to 98 in February from 99 the previous month.

Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in London, said:

The overall picture is less weak than headline figures suggest but France is certainly struggling to gain momentum. The French factory sector remains extremely fragile.

10.27 Over the weekend, Unilver bought a majority stake in Qinyuan, a Chinese company that makes water purifiers and water treatment.

The world's second largest consumer goods company did not reveal the sum paid but said it was its biggest Chinese purchase in more than ten years.

Quartz has a report on why it's a sensible purchase.

It¡¯s a smart move for a company whose business depends heavily on emerging markets like China that have proved volatile recently¡ªUnilever makes almost 60pc of its sales in China and other emerging markets, compared to Procter & Gamble¡¯s 39pc.

Water purification is one of the country¡¯s most reliable consumer goods category, thanks to China¡¯s persistent water pollution problems. An estimated 300m people, almost a quarter of the population, drink contaminated water on a daily basis. China¡¯s expanding middle class doesn¡¯t trust city water¡ªand sometimes not even bottled water¡ªand is splurging on home and office purification systems like those made by Qinyuan, which had sales of about $200m in 2013.

10.05 Tensions between Tesco's finance director and chief executive mean that Laurie McIlwee, who has been Tesco's chief financial officer since 2009, could leave the company within months, according to Sky News.

Mark Klelnman reports that city investors have expressed doubts about Mr McIlwee, and there have been senior level discussions about his position since Tesco abandoned its key profit margin target last month.

Mr McIlwee is said to have an "uncomfortable working with relationship" with Philip Clarke, Tesco's chief executive, according to Sky.

The change would be the latest upheaval for Tesco, who is facing strong competition from discount supermarkets such as Aldi and Lidl.

<noframe>Twitter: Mark Kleinman - Exclusive: Tesco paves way for departure of finance director Laurie McIlwee amid tensions with CEO Philip Clarke. <a href="http://t.co/5Y5ouPyaPG" target="_blank">http://t.co/5Y5ouPyaPG</a></noframe>

09.42 Back in the stock market, engine-maker Rolls-Royce is among the biggest risers, up 2.5pc after it was disclosed on Friday evening that it would buy-out Daimler¡¯s 50pc stake in their power systems joint venture. Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Andy Chamber said:

The acquisition should be modestly accretive as RR generates little income from its cash and Rolls-Royce Power Systems contributed almost 300m to earnings before interest and taxes last year (15pc).

09.13 The French economy is expected to grow by 0.2pc in the first quarter, the country's central bank said Monday, confirming a preliminary forecast issued a month ago.

The bank makes its forecasts based on a monthly survey of a panel of private sector executives, who have reported that business confidence remained largely unchanged in February.

The central bank noted that industrial production was "steady" across almost all sectors in February. This was particularly so in the chemical, pharmaceutical as well as machines and equipments industries.

"Deliveries are intensifying" while "the order books are filling out somewhat", said the bank which also expects business activity to improve slightly in March.

In the services sector, a "slight rise in activity" is seen in March.

09.04 Over in the FTSE 100, weak economic data from China - the world's biggest metals consumer - has hit mining shares, with Glencore Xstrata down 1.7pc, Anglo American off 1.6pc and Antofagasta 1.3pc lower. Rebecca O'Keeffe, head of investment at broker Interactive Investor, said:

China's 7.5pc growth target may only be a week old, but it is already under threat from some truly awful export numbers. The shock drop in exports raises serious questions about how realistic Chinese growth prospects are and casts doubt on their current target. This increased uncertainly is not helpful for either the commodity market or wider global equity markets.

08.28 Asian stock markets are down, battered by weak Chinese trade and a reduced estimate for Japan's economic growth. Shares in Malaysia Airlines tumbled on news of the weekend disappearance of one its jets enroute to Beijing.

Markets were also down in Australia, Taiwan, South Korea and Southeast Asia.

Data released on the weekend showed China's exports fell by an unexpectedly large 18 pc in February, possibly denting hopes trade will help drive the slowing economy while communist leaders push ambitious reforms.

China's official 2014 economic growth target of 7.5pc, announced last week by Premier Li Keqiang, assumes trade also will grow by 7.5pc. But customs data show combined imports and exports so far this year have shrunk by 4.8pc.

08.15 Europe's main stock markets fell at the start of trading on Monday, with London's benchmark FTSE 100 index down 0.1pc.

Frankfurt's DAX 30 slid 0.48pc to 9,305.51 points and in Paris the CAC 40 dipped 0.08pc to 4,363.02 compared with Friday's closing values.

08.09 Louise Armistead has rounded up some of the major business news this morning in her City Briefing email.

In company announcements today, Clarkson, the shipping services group, has announced a 12pc rise in full year revenues to 198m and a 26pc jump in underlying pre-tax profits.

GlaxoSmithKline, has increased its stake in its Indian subsidiary from 50.7pc to 75pc following a voluntary open offer.

Greggs has appointed two new non-executive directors, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner, to replace two retiring directors at the annual meeting in May. Armour Group has announced the disposal of its automotive division to AAMP of America for 10.9m. And Helical Bar has acquired two interlinked office building in Manchester for 34m.

Labour has announced that its "jobs guarantee" scheme for young unemployed people will be extended to cover the whole of the next election, should the party win in May 2015.

Under the scheme, 18 to 24 year olds who have been out of work for a year will be offered a tax-payer funded job for six months - which they will have to take or lose their benefits. The Tories reckon Labour's sums "don't add up" but Ed Balls has promised to use a bank bonus tax to pay for it.

07.50 Chiquita and Fyffes have combined to create the world's largest banana company.

Together, the two banana producers have an equity value of $1.07bn, and plan to be listed on the New York stock exchange.

The massive banana firm will be called chiquitafyffes.

07.30 Japan's current account deficit grew to a record 1.5trn yen (8.7bn) in January, the largest since records began in 1985.

The deficit is far above estimates for a 1.4trn yen deficit as shipments failed to increase despite a weaker yen.

The country's fourth quarter growth was revised down with Japan's economy growing at an annual rate of just 0.7pc in 2013, below the estimates of 1pc.

The disappointing figures add to a recent run of soft indicators that have raised doubts about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's strategy to spark sustainable growth through massive monetary and fiscal stimulus, as well as structural reforms.

"Abenomics" helped the economy grow above an annual clip of 4pc in the first half of last year - the best among advanced economies - but growth slowed to below 1pc in the second half as exports, capital spending and private consumption lagged.

The Bank of Japan began a two-day policy review today amid growing expectations the central bank will further ease policy as early as next month to steer the economy through some speed bumps.
 The Co-operative Group defends plans to pay chief executive Euan Sutherland 3.6m for his first year in the job, report Rebecca Burn-Callander and Emily Gosden
 Szu Ping Chan reports that UK will surpass pre-crisis levels earlier than expected, according to the BCC
 Amazon is to develop its own computer games, pitting the retail giant head to head against the likes of Nintendo and Electronic Arts, reports Katherine Rushton

07.00 Good morning and welcome to our daily business and markets live blog, your one stop shop for all the breaking business stories of the day.