As a Republican I will tell you why I hate Obamacare. It does nothing at all to control the waste that exists in the health care industry. Every study done on the US HCI has shown that half the money spent is wasted on unnecessary services, tests, operations, prescriptions, etc. etc. Further, they show there is absolutely no correlation between the effectiveness of treatments at facilities with the highest vs those with the lowest costs. But not one thing in Obamacare addressed this. There is not, for example, a creation of standards of care guides which, if followed, would indemnify HCI facilities and workers from malpractice suits. Without this, doctors play it safe and cover even the least likely possibilities when diagnosing and treating.

Further, there are no controls on the number of health care facilities and types of equipment these facilities have. As a result, there are things like $10,000,000 CT X-rays sitting around with utilization capacities of less than 10%. No normal business would allow this. But the HCI creates it's own demand - the doctor says you need a CT scan so you get one. He fails to mention he's a part owner of the lab he just sent you to. I know from personal experience about this. I was sent for a CT scan at 5:30 at night and had it done by 6:30. No other patient was waiting. You say, OK but if it was a trauma situation it was good it was so available. Maybe so, but in a follow up with a specialist he also scheduled me for a CT scan after a few weeks of treatment to see if there was any change. He sent me to the CT scanner his practice owned. It was across the parking lot from the other one - really, 2 CT scanners 2 minutes walking distance from each other. The icing on the cake - Because I had a 20% deductible, that first scan cost $2000 leaving me with a $400 charge. So I asked my primary care physician if I really needed a follow up scan. He told me I didn't as now that the issue was defined, a simple X-ray would verify the treatment effectiveness. When I asked the specialist to cancel my CT scan and just do an X-ray he wrote a script and told me go get it wherever I wanted. Seems his practice didn't want to bother with something he could only bill for $200 and which would thus cost me only $40 instead of $400.

I also hate Obamacare because it vilifies the health insurance industry (no, I am not in insurance). The fact is health insurer profits are in the middle of the average for US industries. They aren't raking it in. The industry that is raking it in is health care providers and pharmaceuticals. Controlling the waste would tackle the real problem. But as I said, Obamacare doesn't do anything to control cost.

And the biggest reason I hate Obamacare has to do with its official name - the Affordable Care Act. Democrats believe that taking money from someone like me who, when I get my final paycheck in 2 weeks, will have paid over $33,500 in Federal Income, social security, and medicare taxes this year, and giving it to someone else to pay for their health care does not make health care more affordable. It simply changes who pays for it. Worse, since that person who gets the money I earned doesn't really have a stake in where the money comes from, they are more likely to get unnecessary services. For example, if that person were in the same situation as me staring at another $400 cost directly out their pocket for a CT scan, would they have questioned the need? Not likely. So the so called Affordable Care Act does nothing to actually make health care affordable and, in fact, is likely driving the costs up further.

That is why this Republican hates Obamacare. In closing, I hold the Democrat politicians responsible for this farce of a bill. And I hold the Republican politicians responsible for not taking advantage of their positions during the 8 years of the Bush administration to address the health care crisis with an effective bill.