What are Ages for Social Security Early Retirement and Full Retirement?

Social Security Q&A this week answers this and has more information for disabled veterans on faster processing of their application for help

March 15, 2014  The age for applying to receive Social Security benefits used to be simple, because it stayed the same. Now, the age for receiving full benefits keeps moving higher. But, what about early retirement, a reader asks? The Social Security Q&A has the answer. It also provides more details for disabled veterans on the recent move to high priority for disability assistance requests.

My full retirement age is 66 years and 4 months because I was born in 1956. What is the earliest age I can begin receiving retirement benefits? Is it 62 or 62 and 4 months?

The earliest age you can begin receiving Social Security retirement benefits is 62. Although the full retirement age is increasing from age 66 to 67 for people born after 1954, you can still apply as early as age 62 regardless of what your full retirement age may be.

If you decide to receive benefits before your full retirement age, you will receive a reduced benefit. Keep in mind you will not be able to receive Medicare coverage until age 65, even if you decide to retire at an earlier age. You can learn more about the full retirement age on our this page at our website.

I am a disabled veteran. I have a compensation rating of 100% Permanent and Total from the Veterans Administration. Will I automatically qualify to receive Social Security disability?

No. You would have to apply for Social Security disability and go through the application process.

You may have heard where Social Security recently announced rules regarding an expedited process for processing disability applications filed by veterans with a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) disability compensation rating of 100% Permanent & Total (P&T).

Carolyn W. Colvin, Acting Commissioner of Social Security recently unveiled a new initiative to expedite disability claims. Under the new process, Social Security will treat these veterans applications as high priority and issue expedited decisions, similar to the way the agency currently handles disability claims from Wounded Warriors.

Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country and it is only right that we ensure they have timely access to the disability benefits they may be eligible for and deserve, said Acting Commissioner Colvin.

Social Security worked with Veterans Affairs to identify those veterans with disabilities who have a high probability of also meeting our definition of disability. I am proud of our collaboration and happy to announce this new service for Americas vets.

In order to receive the expedited service, veterans must tell Social Security they have a VA disability compensation rating of 100% P&T and show proof of their disability rating with their VA Notification Letter. The VA rating only expedites Social Security disability claims processing and does not guarantee an approval for Social Security disability benefits. These veterans must still meet the strict eligibility requirements for a disability allowance.

Social Security plans to launch the expedited process in mid-March. For information about this service, please visit socialsecurity.gov/pgm/disability-pt.htm.

For more about Social Securitys handling of Wounded Warriors disability claims, visit socialsecurity.gov/woundedwarriors.

Oscar Garcia is a Public Affairs Specialist with the Social Security Administration. You can direct your questions to him at: SSA, 411 Richland Hills Drive, San Antonio, Texas, 78245. You can also email him at Oscar.h.garcia@ssa.gov. 



Click to More Senior News on the Front Page