The mystery surrounding the fate of missing flight MH370 will never be explained unless the plane¡¯s wreckage is found, investigators revealed today.

They said a ¡°significant lack of evidence¡± made it impossible to say what caused the Malaysia Airlines flight carrying 239 people to divert from its flight path and disappear from radar less than 40 minutes after take-off in Kuala Lumpur in March 2014.

¡°The answer can only be conclusive if the wreckage is found,¡± Kok Soo Chon, head of the MH370 safety investigation team, said today as a key report into the disaster was released.

He said there was no reason to suspect the pilot or co-pilot but added: ¡°We cannot exclude the possibility there was unlawful interference by a third party.¡±

Relatives of the dead hoping for definitive answers were left in tears.

The report also highlighted a delay in air traffic control launching search missions. Grace Nathan, a lawyer whose mother Anne Daisy was on the plane, said: ¡°We hope these mistakes will not be repeated.¡±

Contact was lost with the plane a minute after pilot-in-command Captain Zaharie Shah, 53, radioed air traffic control in Malaysia saying: ¡°Good night Malaysian Three Seven Zero.¡± His sister Sakinab Shah today said the report put to rest the theory that her brother, a married father of three, was responsible for the plane¡¯s disappearance.

Four-year search that has yielded nothing Malaysia airlines MH370, with 227 passengers and 12 crew on board, departed from Kuala Lumpur at 12.42am on March 8, 2014. It was due to arrive in Beijing about five and a half hours later. At 1.19am, Captain Zaharie shah radioed air traffic control in Malaysia. It was the last communication from the plane. A search started later that day and continued for 1,046 days until January 17, last year without success. On January 10 this year, US firm Ocean infinity began a 90-day search. It also failed to locate the missing aircraft. Several pieces of debris were found washed ashore the coasts of South Africa, Mozambique and Tanzania, and the islands of Madagascar, Mauritius and R¨¦union. Today¡¯s report said: ¡°The fact remains that there are 239 persons still missing.¡±

Despite two exhaustive searches of the southern Indian Ocean, neither the fuselage nor any bodies have been found. The plane had 227 passengers and 12 crew on board. Only three small pieces of wreckage washed up on or near the east coast of Africa have been confirmed to be from the Boeing 777.

The flight is known to have diverted off its planned route to Beijing. Today¡¯s report, ordered by the Malaysian government, said the diversion was ¡°likely made while the aircraft was under manual control and not the autopilot¡±.

It said there was ¡°no evidence¡± the ¡°airworthy¡± MH370 was evading radar, and that loss of contact with air traffic control was probably caused by the systems on the plane being switched off or failing.

¡°It could not be established whether the aircraft was flown by anyone other than the pilots,¡± it added. The plane is thought to have crashed into the sea, probably after running out of fuel.

Dr Kok said: ¡°All this gives us the indication and belief that the aircraft at that time was not configured to land.¡± The report said it was ¡°highly improbable¡± that an explosion had resulted from the cargo of 4,566kg mangoes and 221kg of lithium batteries. But the report said: ¡°There is insufficient information to determine if the aircraft broke up in the air or during impact with the ocean.¡±