--The state insurance exchange established as part of the Affordable Care Act opened insurance market for individuals to more competition, the reported Monday.

The foundation found that the individual insurance market had more companies offering coverage in 2014, after the NY State of Health exchange was put in place, compared with 2012, before the exchange was introduced as part of federal health care reform efforts.

For example, in 2012, the top two insurers, Wellpoint (including Empire BlueCross BlueShield) and , served 48 percent of individual market. In 2014, preliminary exchange enrollment figures show that the top insurers, Wellpoint and a new company, Freelancers (including ), accounted for only 34 percent of the market.

Or, by another measure, in 2012, five insurers had 5 percent or more of the individual market, while in 2014 seven insurers had at least that much of the market.

The foundation points out that the individual insurance market historically hasn't been competitive. In 2010, when the Affordable Care Act was passed, a single insurer had more than half the individual insurance market in 30 states.

was one of seven states whose individual insurance markets were studied by the foundation, and were found to be the most competitive under the exchange.

The findings in the report mirror the insurer exchange enrollment data released in January by the state .

And the foundation report also confirms article from December that talked to experts who predicted the exchange would open up the local insurance market to competition from new insurers.

Companies that didn't previously offer insurance in , or weren't active in the individual or group markets here, include and .

The foundation report looks at statewide numbers and does not break down the individual insurance market by region. has yet to release regional numbers for exchange enrollment by insurer.

People who buy individual coverage make up a small percentage of the overall insurance market.

The vast majority of people get their health insurance through an employer or through a government program such as or .