The Financial Times reported last week that Shanghai-based solar panel manufacturer Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology was on the verge of failing to make RMB89.8m (8.8m) worth of interest payments on a bond issued two years ago.

The payment was due on March 7 but in a stockmarket notice on March 4 the company said it had raised only 5 per cent of the amount necessary.

Concerns have grown in recent months about the stability of China¡¯s $12trn (7.2trn) corporate bond market in recent weeks as rumours of potential defaults have spread. In January the Chinese government bailed out a high-yield loan product sold to private investors.

Lu Yu, manager on Allianz Global Investors¡¯ emerging markets equity team, warned that the Chaori Solar bond default could be the catalyst for a short-term equity market crash in China.

¡°China¡¯s credit bubble is worrisome,¡± Ms Yu said. ¡°A default would be a wake up call for Chinese banks, but I don¡¯t think Chinese credit is going to have a big crisis like we saw in Europe and the US.

¡°The Chinese government knows what is going on and the signals are strong that they are taking this very seriously.¡±

But David Cui, China strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, last week likened the potential default by Chaori Solar to the bailout of Bear Stearns in the US in 2007, a move which Mr Cui said forced investors to rethink their attitude towards corporate debt.

Jupiter¡¯s John Chatfeild-Roberts, head of the group¡¯s Merlin multi-manager team, said China was likely to see further bailouts from the state as the government comes to terms with the private sector¡¯s debt issues.

¡°The first signs that many of these loans are at risk of default are now appearing and there are a huge number that will need re-financing this year alone,¡± Mr Chatfeild-Roberts said.

¡°The most likely outcome is that the central authorities in Beijing will find a way of sweeping these bad loans under the carpet, in order to avoid China suffering from a crisis of confidence.

¡°The $500m bailout of the Credit Equals Gold No1 Trust is a good example of what we could expect to see more of in the future.¡±

Yang Kun, a Shanghai-based bond analyst at Guotai Junan Securities, told the Bloomberg news agency: ¡°It shows regulators¡¯ attitude toward defaults has changed and they¡¯re silently permitting defaults. Risk appetite will slump substantially.¡±

But James Ind, manager of the GLG Total Return fund, said he felt that China had ¡°strong control over its financial system¡±.

He added: ¡°We don¡¯t see a disorderly bank collapse or local government default as being yet on the cards. Their reform agenda is bold, with far-reaching plans to liberalise the economy.¡±