Expensive addiction: Candy Crush app maker King seeks to value company at $7.5 BILLION ahead of stock market float
 None Game was the most downloaded free app of 2013
 None Has been downloaded more than 500 million times since its launch in 2012
 None King plans to list on the New York Stock Exchange
 None Company has said it expects share prices to be between $21 and $24
 None Analysts previously estimated company could be valued at $5billion



The firm behind the hit mobile phone game Candy Crush Saga is hoping to value its company at more than $7.5billion when it floats on the US stock market.

Analysts previously estimated King.com could be valued at more than $5billion when it announced it was planning a debut on the US stock market.

The announcement also prompted predictions it could lead to a flurry of technology company listings this year.



The game, which involves moving candies to make a line of three in the same colour, was the most downloaded free app of 2013, and the year's top revenue-grossing app.

The company told the Security and Exchange Commission yesterday that it expected to price its shares at between $21 and $24, according to the International Business Times.

It has been downloaded more than 500 million times since its launch in 2012. The basic games are free, but players need to pay for add-ons or extra lives.

The successful flotation of Twitter in November and a surge in Facebook shares have fuelled speculation that a string of technology firms could come to market, including Spotify, AirBnB and Square, as well as King.

But some analysts have questioned whether King can keep up its breakneck pace of growth, particularly given the difficulty some other games makers have experienced in maintaining success.

Zynga, the maker of Farmville, has seen its share price halve since its late 2011 initial public offering (IPO), while Finland's Rovio has struggled to replicate the success of its 2010 hit Angry Birds.

'It's (Candy Crush Saga) a hot game and King is a fast-growing company, but obviously you have precedents for these type of companies that have been affected by the boom and bust cycles of the game market,' said Josef Schuster, founder of IPOX Schuster, a Chicago-based IPO research and investment house.

The IPO prospectus offered a first glimpse into King's money-making machine, which generated $1.9billion in revenues in 2013, or $5million a day. 



It posted adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of $825million in the year, up from $28.5million in 2012.

By comparison, Zynga and Supercell, the company behind Clash of Clans, both earned around $900million in revenues last year.

Adam Krejcik, an analyst at Eilers Research in California, said the results in King's U.S. filing were 'staggering', but noted a slowdown in quarterly revenues at the end of 2013.

'Have we seen peak revenue and bookings for King, or can they make up for declines with other games?' he questioned.

King co-founder and CEO Riccardo Zacconi said the group, which is 48.2 per cent-owned by private equity firm Apax Partners, had so far launched five games for mobile phones and all had attracted substantial fan-bases.

'Mobile usage is exploding and games are commanding the lion's share of time spent,' he said in the prospectus.

'Consumption habits have changed - mobile has meant that people consume more digital content than they ever have before, and they want to be entertained over short periods of time whenever and wherever they are.'

Japanese tech and telecoms group Softbank bought 51 percent of Supercell late last year, valuing the firm at $3billion, or around 6.5 times its 2013 EBITDA.

Applying the same multiple to King's 2013 EBITDA would value the firm at around $5.3billion.

'The risk here is that the company is valued beyond the $7-$10billion range because it is a hot company,' Mr Schuster said. 



'On the first or the second day of trading the company is going to be an expensive buy and if the stock does well in the first month or so there is no room for upside.'

King, which plans to list on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol 'KING', intends to raise up to $500million in the listing, but the amount a company says it plans to raise in its first IPO filings is used to calculate registration fees and the final size of the IPO could be different.

Founded in Sweden in 2003, King was profitable in 2005 and has not had a funding round since September of that year, when it raised 34million ($46million) from Apax and Index Ventures.

In the last few months, it has made more than $500million in dividend payments - including a $217million payout this month - to its board of directors, its top executives and major investors. Index Ventures owns 8.3 per cent of King. 



THE CANDY CRUSH MILLIONAIRE: HOW A FLOOR SALESMAN WHO LEFT SCHOOL AT 16 WILL BECOME ONE OF THE UK'S RICHEST MEN 

 A flooring salesman who left school at 16 is set to become one of Britain¡¯s richest men as he stands to pocket 520million when the firm behind the hit game Candy Crush floats on the stock market. Mel Morris, a former Derby County FC director, has a 12 per cent stake in King Digital Entertainment - maker of the addictive game involving moving candies to make a line of three in the same colour. The father-of-two was also behind dating website uDate, launched in 1998, which was sold for 100million in 2003 and netted him 20million, some of which was later invested into King. In the money: Mel Morris (left, in his LinkedIn photo) has a 12 per cent stake in King Digital Entertainment, maker of Candy Crush (right) - which involving moving candies to make a line of three in the same colour Entrepreneur: Mr Morris was also behind dating website uDate, launched in 1998, which was sold for 100million in 2003 and netted him 20million, some of which was later invested into King Mr Morris, 58, who was born in Littleover, Derbyshire, set up a hardwood flooring firm and property company in Spain upon leaving school - and was a management consultant by the age of 20. Later on came uDate, whose success was put down to matching innovative technology with a large customer base. Three years after that sale, he was part of a consortium that took over Derby County. Mr Morris, who is married, then sold his internet security company Prevx in 2010 - which produced anti-virus software for businesses and individuals - for more than 10million to US giant Webroot. It was only revealed last month that Mr Morris was a significant player in King, after the firm¡¯s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission named him as chairman of the business. He is expected to shoot into The Sunday Times Rich List - with his 520million from Candy Crush set to put him in between the likes of Harry Potter author JK Rowling and entrepreneur Peter Jones. Chief executive: Italian entrepreneur Riccardo Zacconi (pictured), 47, who has led King with Toby Rowland since co-founding the company in Sweden in 2003, will hold a 9.5 per cent stake after the IPO Mr Morris lived from 1996 to 2004 in a three-bedroom home in an area of Belper, Derbyshire, with an average house value of 470,000, although his residence since then is not known.

 King - which gets 78 per cent of its revenue from Candy Crush, the most downloaded free app last year - expects to be worth 4.5billion when going public on the Nasdaq in the US this month. Candy Crush launched on Facebook in April 2012. The London-based firm¡¯s game was released on Apple devices in November that year, followed by an app for Android devices a month later. The game - which was the top revenue-grossing app in 2013 - has been downloaded more than 500million times. The basic games are free, but players must pay for add-ons or extra ¡®lives¡¯. Italian entrepreneur Riccardo Zacconi, 47, who has led King with Toby Rowland since co-founding the company in Sweden in 2003, will hold a 9.5 per cent stake after the IPO. 

 Mr Zacconi, who lives in London with his Chinese-Swedish wife and son, is in line for a 300million payday. He co-founded the firm with Sebastian Knutsson, Thomas Hartwig, Lars Markgren and Patrik Stymne. The chief executive of King - which was originally launched with the idea of specialising in games that could be played on Yahoo! - also worked with uDate until it was sold in 2003. Mr Zacconi lived in a three-bedroom flat worth 2.2million in South Kensington, central London, from 2007 to 2010, before moving to a three-bedroom house worth 1.4million in Bayswater, west London.

 King wants to benefit from focusing on the 10billion market for mobile game apps and avoid the fate of rivals such as Zynga, which has struggled to make its games as popular on phones as online. King said yesterday that it expects to price its initial public offering (IPO) at $21-$24 (13-14) per share, valuing it slightly higher than Hasbro, the 90-year old maker of Monopoly, Scrabble and Nerf. Makers: Thomas Hartwig (left) and Sebastian Knutsson (right), co-founders of King with Mr Zacconi and two other men. King was originally launched with the idea of specialising in games to be played on Yahoo! 

 Twitter¡¯s successful IPO in November and a surge in Facebook¡¯s shares have fuelled speculation of other tech firms going public, including music-streaming service Spotify and lodging website AirBnB. Stellar popularity has now helped King's revenue grow to 361million in the fourth quarter of 2013 from 13million in the first quarter of 2012. But most of that growth was fulled by Candy Crush rather than any of the 180 games King provides through mobile phones, Facebook and its own website. King, which has more than 650 employees, has focused on launching more games on mobile platforms, a market that analysts expect will grow to 10billion this year from just 4billion in 2010. Zynga's stock price has halved since its IPO in 2011 as the popularity of the Farmville game waned, while Finland's Rovio has struggled to replicate the success of Angry Birds. King's IPO is scheduled to be priced on March 25, and the stock will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ¡®KING¡¯ on March 26. Of the 22.2million shares on sale in the offering, the company will sell 15.5million, while stockholders, including Apax Ventures, will sell 6.7million shares, King said. Unlike most other tech companies that have gone public recently, King is profitable, has no debt and generated positive cash flow from operations for each of the last nine years.