The banana is the king of fruit, outselling apples, oranges and all the rest. And now the king of bananas will be Chiquita Brands International.

Chiquita is vaulting ahead of the Dole Food Company by acquiring a company in a not-so-tropical locale: Ireland. The company, Fyffes, distributes fruit across Europe. Chiquita said on Monday that it would pay about $526 million for Fyffes.

The deal will potentially give Chiquita some sway over prices. According to the Department of Agriculture, bananas account for more than a quarter of all the fruit eaten in the United States. This country imports 3.8 million to 4.1 million tons a year.

At first glance, research analysts said they did not think the deal would lead immediately to higher prices for bananas, which also hold a particular sway in the minds of consumers.

¡°Bananas are the quality signal for the grocery store,¡± Edward F. Lonergan, the chief executive of Chiquita said. ¡°When people walk in and see the ripeness of the bananas, that colors their impression of the entire store.¡±

The all-stock deal will combine Chiquita, with robust sales in the United States, with Fyffes, which is stronger in Europe, to create a global banana production and distribution company.

¡°Bananas are the most important food in the world,¡± Mr. Lonergan said in an interview. ¡°They are the lowest-priced food that offers the highest nutritional value anywhere you go and are No. 1 in the kitchen.¡±

The combined company, to be named ChiquitaFyffes, will have about $4.6 billion in annual revenue, shipping about 160 million boxes of bananas a year.

Though Chiquita shareholders will own about 51 percent of the new company, ChiquitaFyffes will be based in Ireland. David McCann, currently Fyffes¡¯s executive chairman, will become chief executive. Mr. Lonergan will become chairman.

Because the deal involves an American company taking over a foreign target and changing its domicile, it represents the latest so-called corporate inversion.

Most inversions result in millions or even billions of dollars in tax savings for the acquiring company, since a highly taxed corporation in the United States reduces its tax bill by essentially moving to a jurisdiction that has a lower rate, like Ireland.

But in this case, the companies said that there were few anticipated tax savings as a result of the deal. That is largely because Chiquita had few profits in the United States and had already taken steps to minimize its tax bill.

Nonetheless, the decision to locate the combined company in Ireland was made with an eye on potential long-term tax advantages.

¡°Can you make the argument that this will one day be attractive from a tax perspective? Perhaps,¡± Mr. McCann said in an interview. ¡°We are certainly taking advantage of having a true multinational corporation.¡±

Tax inversions have come under fire recently after a wave of corporations in the United States effectively expatriated to save on taxes. Max Baucus, the United States ambassador to China, who until recently was a senator from Montana, last year proposed corporate tax changes that would have limited the benefits of inversions.

Last week, President Obama went further, including a proposal in the budget he submitted to Congress that would effectively ban inversions. That set off a drop in the stocks of many companies that have already inverted, even though the Obama budget is unlikely to pass, and the proposal would not be retroactive.

Nevertheless, corporate advisers said companies considering inversions might try to get tax-friendly deals soon, anticipating that changes to the law could be coming soon.

¡°Even though the president¡¯s budget proposals with respect to ¡®inversions¡¯ roiled the market, these transactions are continuing unabated,¡± Robert Willens, a corporate tax adviser, wrote in a research note on Monday. ¡°We may even see these transactions proliferate through the balance of the year.¡±

Chiquita and Fyffes said the main advantage of the combination was to create a company with increased revenue that could also find cost savings across its vast distribution network. By eliminating duplication in shipping efforts, among other things, the companies expect the combination to save at least $40 million annually by the end of 2016.

The two companies share some corporate history. In 1986, an Irish distributor then known as Fruit Importers of Ireland acquired the Fyffes brand from United Brands, the company now known as Chiquita.

Today, Chiquita has annual revenue of more than $3 billion and employs about 20,000 people in nearly 70 countries. Fyffes, based in Dublin, employs about 12,000 people and has annual revenue of more than $1.5 billion.

Academics who have studied the banana market have found it to be ¡°imperfectly¡± competitive, since it is dominated by three or four companies. Chiquita and Dole together account for half of banana sales.

Those companies, together with Fresh Del Monte and Exportadora Bananera Noboa, an Ecuadorean business, account for about three-quarters of the bananas sold globally, according to research by agricultural economists at Texas A&M University.

Edward Evans, an agricultural economist at the University of Florida, said the deal would give Chiquita control over approximately 30 percent of banana sales and a bigger foothold in the growing European market.

But Professor Evans said he did not think the merger would worry regulators. ¡°Chiquita is mainly in the American market, whereas Fyffes is the big distributor in the European Union,¡± he said. ¡°They operate in different markets.¡±

Nonetheless, the companies will face a close antitrust review by regulators in the United States and Europe. They do not expect regulators to stop the deal, however, saying they believe it will close by the end of 2014.

Professor Evans said he would not be surprised to see acquisitions and mergers among the other banana companies now.

¡°What has happened is that with consolidation at the retail level, with all these supermarket mergers and Walmart expanding, the big banana companies have lost their power to negotiate prices and other terms,¡± he said. ¡°This is really a strategic response to regain market power as much as anything.¡±

Chiquita was advised by Goldman Sachs, while its board of directors was advised by Wells Fargo. Lazard acted as the financial adviser to Fyffes.

 Chiquita¡¯s legal advisers were Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom; McCann FitzGerald; and Taft Stettinius & Hollister. Fyffes received legal advice from Simpson Thacher & Bartlett and Arthur Cox.