HONG KONG (Nikkei Markets) -- Asian stocks outside of Japan ended lower in September as trade tensions between the U.S. and China escalated, with a third round of import tariffs by the two nations taking effect.

The Nikkei Asia300 Index ended 0.1% lower at 1,310.97 on Friday. The gauge fell 0.9% in September, following a 0.6% decline in August. It slipped 0.9% during the July-September quarter.

The U.S. this month introduced tariffs on $200 billion of goods it imports from China, while mainland authorities enforced duties on about $60 billion of inbound shipments from America. The moves, which follow $50 billion of import levies the two nations had introduced earlier in two stages, have added to market concerns about the economic impact from the developments. Furthermore, China last week said it will pull out of planned trade talks with the U.S.

Still, Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong and the mainland have received some support after index compiler MSCI said it is starting a consultation to consider giving large mainland stocks a 20% inclusion factor in its indexes - four times their current weighting.

Property stocks in Hong Kong declined Friday, with Sun Hung Kai Properties and Henderson Land Development sliding 1% and 0.5%, respectively. Losses for the stocks came after data showed private home prices in the city fell 0.076% last month from July, marking their first monthly decline in at least two years. Interest rate increases by some local lenders on Thursday, which followed a rate hike by the U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday, have also weighed on local property stocks.

Hong Kong's markets will be closed on Monday, and China's for all of next week, for the National Day holiday.

Korea Aerospace Industries plunged 29.8% in Seoul after the U.S. Air Force selected Boeing to build its next training jet, beating a training jet jointly developed by KAI and Lockheed Martin. The contract is worth up to $9.2 billion over the lifetime of the program.

Energy producers advanced, with CNOOC and PetroChina rising 3.7% and 1.8%, respectively, amid the broad strength in global oil prices. CNOOC is considering selling parts of its U.S. oil assets in the Gulf of Mexico, Reuters reported, citing a company spokeswoman. A CNOOC official said the company is "restructuring global assets, and the U.S. assets are part of the restructuring."

Cathay Pacific Airways climbed 5.4% to HK$11.80. On Friday, Daiwa Capital Markets upgraded the stock to Buy from Outperform and raised its target price to HK$14 from HK$13.7.

Sapura Energy fell 3.5% in Kuala Lumpur after the Malaysian oil-and-gas services company reported a fourth consecutive quarterly loss due to lower revenue from its engineering and drilling businesses.

In Singapore trading, conglomerate Keppel Corp fell 2.8%, while media company Singapore Press Holdings rose 2.9%, as trading in their shares resumed following a halt. The moves came after the two companies offered to buy shares of telecommunications company M1 that they don't already own.

Malaysia's Axiata Group, M1's largest shareholder with about a 29% stake, has said it is evaluating all options for its interest in the company. Keppel currently controls 19.3% of M1 while SPH holds another 13.5%. Axiata shares ended 3.6% lower.