The Chinese yuan fell against the world's reserve currency as the trade week began after the central bank of the Asian nation cut the daily reference rate the most in roughly 16 months, according to Bloomberg.

Exports from China fell more than 18 percent in February as compared to the same period of last year. The People's Bank of China slashed the reference rate on Monday by 0.18 percent.

"Major banks have abundant money now after steadily deleveraging themselves since last June, which is thanks to better risk management," a trader with a Beijing bank told Reuters on Monday, noting the activity by the banking sector aims to provide the financial institutions with an increased amount of available cash.

The yuan dropped about 0.27 percent against the greenback on Monday after having fallen more than 0.5 percent earlier during the trade session.

Speculation is growing that China, host of the globe's second-largest economy, is cautiously and quietly effecting monetary stimulus measures as part of a drive to prompt economic development and growth. Concerns also are growing about China's industrial sector.

This material is conveyed as a solicitation for entering into a derivatives transaction. This material has been prepared by a Daniels Trading broker who provides research market commentary and trade recommendations as part of his or her solicitation for accounts and solicitation for trades; however, Daniels Trading does not maintain a research department as defined in CFTC Rule 1.71. Daniels Trading, its principals, brokers and employees may trade in derivatives for their own accounts or for the accounts of others. Due to various factors (such as risk tolerance, margin requirements, trading objectives, short term vs. long term strategies, technical vs. fundamental market analysis, and other factors) such trading may result in the initiation or liquidation of positions that are different from or contrary to the opinions and recommendations contained therein. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The risk of loss in trading futures contracts or commodity options can be substantial, and therefore investors should understand the risks involved in taking leveraged positions and must assume responsibility for the risks associated with such investments and for their results. You should carefully consider whether such trading is suitable for you in light of your circumstances and financial resources. You should read the "risk disclosure" webpage accessed at www.DanielsTrading.com at the bottom of the homepage. Daniels Trading is not affiliated with nor does it endorse any trading system, newsletter or other similar service. Daniels Trading does not guarantee or verify any performance claims made by such systems or service.