Over a month after a revolution in Ukraine's capital overthrew the government, the country's new leaders have watched Russia claim a region for its own, wage an "information war", and mass an estimated 40,000 troops at the border, all while pro-Russian protests have bloomed in eastern cities.

Kiev's interim government faces a possibility of invasion or civil war, and has struggled to wrangle with Russian influence in protests and politics. Moscow remains cagey, denying the west's accusations that President Vladimir Putin has provoked unrest, while also refusing to acknowledge Kiev or any wrongdoing. The US and EU sanctioned Russians with close ties to Putin, and threatened further moves to hurt Russia's economy. After new, increasingly hostile protests flared Sunday in cities near the border with Russia, Ukraine's interior minister said Wednesday that whether by negotiations or force, "a resolution to this crisis will be found within the next 48 hours." How did we get here?
 Revolution on Maidan
 Crimea's 'homecoming'
 Sanctions and the 'information war'
 The latest unrest in east Ukraine

Last November, Ukraine's president, Viktor Yanukovych, with his country barreling toward economic catastrophe, faced a choice. He could make a long-term, initially painful deal with the EU to bolster integration and trade, or he could take a $15bn loan from Russia and move his country toward a planned "Eurasian Union", with Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia. After months of waffling, Yanukovych, who was ousted from office in 2004 over corruption and has a long history with Putin, chose the money.

The decision sparked protests on Kiev's Independence Square, aka the Maidan, and after Yanukovych tried to quash them and assert control, protesters fortified, literally. Thousands joined, especially after fighting with police turned deadly, and the movement gained new purpose: fighting the endemic corruption that Yanukovych's government symbolized. As clashes grew more violent, disparate factions joined, uniting liberals, moderates, technocrats, pro-European and far-right nationalists.

More than 100 people died in the protests, many apparently killed by snipers on Yanukovych's orders, or beaten by the Berkut, the riot police later disbanded and offered Russian passports following the revolution. Eventually, Yanukovych fled to Russia, and a coalition government formed out of the opposition, agreeing to hold new elections on 25 May.
 Read our full piece on how Ukraine and the west's standoff with Russia began here

During the final days of protests, Putin ordered surprise military drills on the border with Ukraine, and at Russia's Black Sea base on Ukraine's Crimean peninsula. Almost simultaneous to the exercises, armed men in unmarked uniforms, most wearing masks, seized airports and regional government buildings around Crimea. (Though some admitted being Russian, most, and Russia, denied any affiliation and characterized them as "local self-defense groups".)

With armed gunmen surrounding the regional parliament, Crimea, heretofore a part of Ukraine with slightly more independence than other regions, voted in a new government of pro-Russian figures (including a man nicknamed 'Goblin') and decided to hold a referendum on Crimea's future. Russia's parliament authorized deploying troops in Ukraine, should Putin see fit. On the ground, a de facto stealth invasion had already taken place, with Russian-plated vehicles blocking roads, the Russian fleet trapping Ukrainian warships, and pro-Russian forces in tense standoffs around every major Ukrainian base.

With strong ties to Russia's history and culture, the Crimean peninsula looms large in Russia's national imagination, and has a large ethnic Russian population and significant pro-Russian sentiment. When the referendum rolled around on 16 March 每 denounced by Ukraine, the US and EU as illegal 每 officials reported a 97% vote to join Russia. (The referendum was only meant to "confirm" a parliamentary vote to secede, and only had two options: join Russia or enhance Crimea's independence.)

Days later, Putin signed a treaty formally annexing Crimea and delivered two speeches, in which he decried western hypocrisy and celebrated a victory "without a single shot fired and no human casualties". (A Ukrainian soldier died later that day as the only military victim of the conflict so far; it remains unclear who killed him.) In the second speech, on Red Square, Putin glorified Crimea's "return home". With its local bases besieged and pro-Russian Crimeans celebrating, Ukraine authorized its troops to use weapons in self-defense, ending its policy of restraint. The deposed president, Yanukovych, called Crimea's annexation to Russia a "tragedy", from Russia.
 Read our full piece on Crimea's importance to Russia and Ukraine here
 Read our full piece on the Crimean referendum here

After weeks of warning Russia about consequences, the US and EU ordered sanctions, so far mostly limited to Putin's allies and people linked to events in Crimea. The EU blacklisted 33 Russians and Ukrainians, and US sanctions have fallen on a bank and 31 people, including powerful businessmen such as Gennady Timchenko, of the Gunvor oil group, and the Rotenberg brothers, who grew up with Putin and now own contracting companies worth billions. A number of politicians are also on the list, as is Bank Rossiya, which the US claims holds senior officials' money.

The sanctions order assets frozen, visas revoked and a ban on US companies' business with the targets. Russia's participation in the G8 and European Council was also suspended, though the Kremlin quickly pointed "no one gives out any membership cards."

Moscow returned in kind, placing sanctions on US officials, but the list 每 including John McCain and White House adviser Dan Pfeiffer 每 was almost purely symbolic. In contrast, the ruble briefly tumbled, Russian markets shuddered, and Standard & Poor's downgraded the country's credit rating. The EU and US have promised Ukraine a $16bn loan as part of an effort to rescue its economy.

American secretary of state John Kerry has said "all options are on the table," including "energy, mining, banking". EU nations have also said they will extend sanctions, but disagree how to do so; Britain's long relationship with wealthy Russians, and Germany and France's reliance on gas imports, mean starkly different priorities.

As western warnings to relent went unheeded, Nato resuscitated operations in Baltic countries and severed co-operation with Russia, as did Nasa, the US military and several European countries. The UN roundly condemned Russia's actions, and for weeks, top diplomats from Russia, the US and EU have been meeting in Europe. John Kerry and his Russian counterpart, foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, have largely led these talks, but consistently to no results. Each has stuck to his country's official line.

The US insists Russia is behaving "in a 19th century fashion" and has deployed "agents" to sow "chaos" in an "incredible act of aggression". The US conceded that Russia has "complete operational control" over Crimea. The Kremlin insists that "radicals", including "anti-Semites, fascists and ultra-nationalists" staged a coup in Kiev 每 with murky western backing 每 and now continue to destabilize Ukraine. Moscow continues to say that Crimea's referendum is analogous to Kosovo's independence movement of the 1990s, and that Kiev's illegal government threatens ethnic Russians 每 whom Putin has vowed to protect.

Meanwhile, Russian officials have declared an "information war". Russian media, almost totally controlled by the state, and until recently ubiquitous in east Ukraine, tells a number of hazy, alternate versions of the Kiev and Crimea stories. These stories play on half-truths, like the presence of far-right nationalists at Maidan, and reasonable doubt, like skepticism of western meddling. Some of these skewed stories have seeped into western media as well, such as the notion that Ukraine is divided by language between a pro-Russian east and a pro-Ukrainian west (the country is filled with "multiethnic, multilingual families" throughout).

Adding even more confusion, the Russian foreign ministry said Greystone, a private security contractor of Blackwater's mold, was operating disguised as Ukrainian law enforcement. The US ambassador dismissed the allegation as "rubbish", and both Greystone and Blackwater deny any involvement. (In 2012 Greystone did report "new business in Russia" on its site.) The story, already filled with subtle distinctions and murky manipulations, was thus made more complicated still.
 Read our full piece on Russian propaganda here
 Read a comment piece piece on propaganda accusations by Dmitry Kiselyov, Kremlin-appointed editor-in-chief of Russia Today
 Read a comment piece piece on the state of Russian journalism by Tikhon Dzyadko, owner of the independent station TV Rain

Though 40,000 Russian troops and armored unites, according to estimates, have massed at the border with Ukraine, the eastern cities of Donetsk, Kharkiv and Lugansk had all experienced a few weeks of calm before pro-Russian protests erupted this weekend. The Guardian's Alec Luhn reports that 43 ex-Berkut members have occupied a building in Lugansk, where they are negotiating with authorities. Security services said the 56 people had been briefly held captive, but the former Berkut denied this, saying "Russia won't help us if we take hostages."

In Kharkiv, Ukrainian police detained 70 demonstrators who had taken the headquarters of local security services. Protesters also reportedly seized the opera house before realizing it was not city hall, lending some credence to the presence of "protest tourists" 每 Russians affiliated with the Kremlin who arrived to stoke dissent. (Further evidence of "Russian agents" to which Kerry alluded include the identification of a number of "local" protesters in Ukraine, found to be Russians who frequented Kremlin-sponsored events at home.)

In Donetsk, pro-Russian protesters seized a government building and began building fortifications in the city's central square 每 a neat inversion of the Maidan protests, even co-opting the Kiev protesters' imagery and using the hashtag "anti-Maidan". Mirroring events in Crimea, those who seized the government building proclaimed Donetsk a "people's republic" and demanded a referendum before 11 May. But protests in Donetsk and Lugansk are smaller than those in Crimea a month ago, and a recent poll says 65% of locals want to stay with Ukraine. Furthermore, reports from outside Donetsk's central square suggest most of the city would prefer to carry on without the drama.

On Wednesday, Ukraine's interior minister, Arsen Avakov, said : "A resolution to this crisis will be found within the next 48 hours ＃ For those who want dialogue, we propose talks and a political solution. For the minority who want conflict, they will get a forceful answer from the Ukrainian authorities." Both Ukraine and Russia say that authorities have arrested "provocateurs" trying to infiltrate the respective countries and stage attacks. Local negotiations in the eastern cities are ongoing, and Kiev has offered amnesty to separatists if they turn themselves in. By Friday, the offices in Donetsk were still occupied, while armed rebels in Luhansk were refusing the offer of amnesty.

But international diplomacy remains at an impasse, though representatives from Russia, the EU, US and Ukraine plan to meet this week 每 possibly signalling the first time Moscow recognizes Kiev's interim government. (Putin said he hopes Kiev won't do anything that "can't be fixed later".) The Kremlin is pushing for constitutional reform, namely the "federalization" of Ukraine's regions, giving each greater autonomy 每 and thus allowing Russia greater influence in regions, which would not have to follow an anti-Russian Kiev government. Moscow has also announced an 80% hike in gas prices; a gas war would cripple Ukraine's economy even further.

Though Nato and the US warned Russia could strike without warning, Putin and Lavrov have said Russia has "no intention" to invade; similar rhetoric came right after the revolution toppled Yanukovych. Moreover, Russia does not need to invade if it can coerce Ukraine into co-operating and accepting its influence 每 as it did during Yanukovych's tenure. As Masha Lipman, an analyst the Moscow Carnegie Center, told the New Republic, "Putin really doesn't like it when people know what he is going to do ＃ Everything is possible. That's what Putin is all about."

Update: As of Sunday 13 April, Ukrainian forces fought a firefight with unknown armed men, with one officer reported killed in Slovyansk.. Violence has broken out in more eastern cities, including Kramatorsk, Druzhkovka, Mariupol and Yenakeivo; unkown gunmen have seized key buildings, including at least one police station, in a number of these cities. Interim president Oleksandr Turchynov reiterated his offer of amnesty to separatists who surrender, while also warning of a "large-scale, anti-terror operation" to commence in eastern cities, by the Ukrainian military, should the armed militia not give up seized government buildings. Turchynov set a Monday morning deadline for evacuation. The American ambassador to the UN, meanwhile, said that unrest in east Ukraine "bears tell-tale signs of Moscow's involvement".