PITTSBURGH -- In a final push before the deadline, area officials and groups are hosting Affordable Care Act health insurance enrollment events to get as many people as possible covered.



A report last week from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services showed that more than 4.2 million Americans have selected a marketplace health insurance plan between the time the open enrollment period began on Oct. 1 and March 1. In Pennsylvania, approximately 159,821 people have selected a marketplace plan -- not far from the administrations goal for 164,800 people to enroll in private plans within the first five months.



The last push to enroll is going on nationwide, and as part of the effort, Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and U.S. Rep. Mike Doyle, D-14, Forest Hills, on Monday designated this week as Affordable Care Act Week, with numerous events scheduled throughout the county up to the March 31 deadline.



On St. Patricks Day today, we all have the luck of the Irish, but we cant count on that luck lasting, Fitzgerald said in a news release. As we approach the end of open enrollment, we should all be working together to ensure that our friends, family, co-workers and loved ones are covered. Thats why were focusing on this week of enrollment events, so that our residents can act now to provide peace of mind for themselves and their families.



Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto also is planning to launch an enrollment push in the city during a press conference Tuesday with Get Covered America.



The campaign, titled Its Your Last Chance to Get Covered!, will be aimed at engaging thousands of uninsured individuals to help them get quality, affordable coverage by March 31, according to a Get Covered America news release.



In Beaver County, health care navigators and certified application counselors are also working to get the final folks enrolled through several events before the deadline.



Though the current open enrollment period will end March 31, some people, such as those who may have recently lost jobs or health insurance, have extra time.



Some people may also qualify for special enrollment periods throughout the year if they experience certain life events, such as losing or gaining employer coverage or changes in family size.



Those who do not sign up for coverage in time could face a fine that will go up every year, although there are some exemptions, such as for those who cannot find affordable coverage.



The next open enrollment period for 2015 will begin in November.