The next time you're looking to negotiate a deal, give the folks at Jos. A. Bank a call.

After five months of back and forth, Jos. A. Bank agreed to be acquired by in a deal worth $1.8 billion. Men's Wearhouse will pay $65 per share in cash to purchase its smaller rival.

Men's Wearhouse and Jos have been playing hard to get with one another since October. That was when Jos made the first move and bid for its larger rival. Men's Wearhouse rejected the offer, but it then chased Hampstead, MD-based Jos. A. Bank for months, making three bids for the company. It was rejected by Jos each time before finally scoring the deal today.

"This was an exciting cat and mouse game in a relatively boring, low-growth industry," says Brian Sozzi, CEO & chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.

While Men's Wearhouse is finally getting what it wants by picking up its smaller suit-selling competitor, Jos A. Bank is the real winner of this M&A saga.

Though Men's Wearhouse was making the most of the bids (it even took a hostile approach in January), Jos. A. Bank was the true aggressor throughout the process. Jos made the first move when it made a bold $2.3 billion bid, and when Men's Wearhouse reciprocated with bids of its own, Jos pushed back hard saying it wasn't interested.

Robert N. Wildrick, chairman of Jos. A. Bank, said back in January, "Our Board of Directors firmly believes that the Men's Wearhouse offer is inadequate and significantly undervalues Jos. A. Bank and its near- and long-term potential."

But even as it continued to reject the bids, Jos was likely interested in a deal with Men's Wearhouse all along. Why? It wanted the best possible offer. "Jos played Men's Wearhouse like a fiddle," Sozzi says.

Jos. A. Bank even went as far as to make an offer for Eddie Bauer in February for $825 million. "They had no intention of buying Eddie Bauer. It was an effort to get the last dime out of Men's Wearhouse," Sozzi addds.

Less than two weeks later, Men's Wearhouse increased its offer to $63.50 per share from its previous $57.50 offer. Days later, Jos was ready to talk and agreed to exchange confidential financials with Men's Wearhouse. Today's deal has Men's Wearhouse paying $65.00, or total consideration of $1.8 billion. That's up from the first offer from Men's Wearhouse at $55 per share, which represented an implied enterprise value of approximately $1.2 billion.

"This was Jos. A. Bank's show and Men's Wearhouse was living in it," says Sozzi, who predicted in October the two retailers would eventually agree to a deal.

The agreement is giving shareholders of both companies something to cheer about. Jos shares are up 3.9% while Men's Wearhouse shares are up 5.2% this afternoon.

James Gellert, CEO of Rapid Ratings, whose company rates public companies on their financial health, scores them from 0 to 100. Jos. A. Bank and Men's Wearhouse score a 69 and 62, respectively. Gellert says both companies have something to gain in the deal.

"Neither is generating impressive revenue but both have good margins meaning they are good at cost efficiencies," he says. The two companies will have a chance to cut costs further after they merge, specifically in their supply chain, Gellert adds.

There are still more crucial details that will need to be hammered out. Among them: What will the future management team look like? Leadership was reportedly a point of contention during the five-month back and forth.

The press release for today's deal doesn't offer much information on that front. "All of us at Men's Wearhouse have great respect for the Jos. A. Bank management team and are eager to work with Jos. A. Bank's talented employees," Doug Ewert, President and Chief Executive Officer of Men's Wearhouse said.

"Initially, I thought Men's Wearhouse should lead because it had he stronger brand, but with the way Jos. A. Bank executives handled this deal, I'd rather have them in charge," Sozzi says.