$41 million investment in Shepherdsville facility will create up to 900 jobs

FRANKFORT, Ky. (Aug. 30, 2018) ¨C Gov. Matt Bevin today announced Walmart will invest $41 million and create 400 full-time jobs at a new facility in Bullitt County dedicated to fulfilling online orders from Walmart.com and Walmart subsidiary Jet.com.

¡°We are excited to welcome Walmart and Jet.com¡¯s distribution facility to Bullitt County and the commonwealth,¡± Gov. Bevin said. ¡°This is a major new venture for the company that will bring significant investment and hundreds of jobs to the region. It is further confirmation that Kentucky is the established leader for logistics and distribution in the United States.¡±

Walmart will lease a 720,000-square-foot building in the Velocity 65 trade center on Velocity Way off of I-65. In addition to full-time permanent workers, the facility will eventually employ several hundred temporary workers, including seasonal employees. Company leaders plan to open the center later this fall.

¡°This new facility will soon be serving even more Walmart.com and Jet.com customers with fast shipping in two-days or less, and we¡¯re thrilled we found a home for it in Bullitt County,¡± said Nate Faust, senior vice president of supply chain, Walmart eCommerce U.S. ¡°We look forward to opening for business and to a long relationship with the people of Kentucky and Shepherdsville.¡±

Sen. Dan Seum, of Fairdale, said the company¡¯s plans would help the local economy and its impact would reverberate beyond Shepherdsville.

¡°This is a great development for our area and the entire region,¡± Sen. Seum said. ¡°It represents the faith the company has in the outstanding workforce in Bullitt and surrounding counties. I look forward to seeing the project come to fruition.¡±

Rep. Linda Belcher, of Shepherdsville, said the project showed Bullitt County is ready for business.

¡°This is tremendous news for Bullitt County and is further proof that our community offers everything businesses large or small might need,¡± Rep. Belcher said. ¡°These new jobs, meanwhile, will create opportunities for hundreds of workers and families throughout the region, making us even stronger economically. I look forward to working with the company and doing whatever I can to help make its local operations a success.¡±

Shepherdsville Mayor Curtis Hockenbury said he looked forward to the project¡¯s positive effect on the local economy.

¡°I am thrilled Walmart is expanding its investment and presence in our community,¡± Mayor Hockenberry said. ¡°The project will have a huge impact on the economy and provide jobs that will improve the lives of Shepherdsville residents. This is another indication that this is a great place to do business.¡±

Bullitt County Judge-Executive Melanie Roberts also lauded the development as a win for the county.

¡°We are very pleased to have a project of this magnitude coming to Bullitt County,¡± Judge-Executive Roberts said. ¡°This shows that companies like Jet.com understand the quality of our people, as well as our ideal location for top distribution and logistics operations. The investment and jobs will help grow this community for years to come.¡±

To encourage the investment and job growth in the community, the Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA) on Thursday preliminarily approved the company for tax incentives up to $3 million through the Kentucky Business Investment program. The performance-based incentive allows a company to keep a portion of its $41 million investment over the agreement term through corporate income tax credits and wage assessments by meeting job and investment targets.

A detailed community profile for Bullitt County can be viewed here.

Information on Kentucky¡¯s economic development efforts and programs is available at ThinkKentucky.com. Fans of the Cabinet for Economic Development can also join the discussion on Facebook or follow on Twitter. Watch the Cabinet¡¯s ¡°This is My Kentucky¡± video on YouTube.

About Walmart

Walmart Inc. (NYSE: WMT) helps people around the world save money and live better - anytime and anywhere - in retail stores, online, and through their mobile devices. Each week, nearly 265 million customers and members visit our more than 11,200 stores under 55 banners in 27 countries and eCommerce websites. With fiscal year 2018 revenue of $500.3 billion, Walmart employs over 2.2 million associates worldwide. Walmart continues to be a leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting http://corporate.walmart.com, on Facebook at http://facebook.com/walmart and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/walmart.