Antivirus and security software company has fired its CEO, effective immediately, and as a result of the termination shares of its stock are falling fast in Thursday's after-hours trading session.

Symantec, which produces Norton Antivirus and other anti-virus software, announced Thursday afternoon that president and CEO Steve Bennett is out, and board member Michael Brown has been elected as interim president and CEO and will take Bennett's place immediately. Symantec said that the search for a permanent CEO will also begin immediately.

The chairman of Symantec's board, Daniel Schulman, said in a statement that Bennett's termination was "not precipitated by any event or impropriety," but rather the result of an ongoing deliberative process. Schulman also said that the board recognizes Bennett's contributions as CEO, which included "developing and leading a series of successful initiatives focused on organizational realignment, cost reduction and process effectiveness."

Bennett has only been Symantec's CEO since July of 2012, and was chairman of Symantec's board from 2011 to 2013. Prior to joining Symantec, Bennett served as president and CEO of technology company from 2007 to 2011; before that, he had a 23-year career at , holding management roles in a variety of GE businesses including GE Capital, GE Appliances and GE Medical Systems.

Schulman said that Symantec's priority now is "to identify a leader who can leverage our company's assets and leadership team to drive the next stage of Symantec's product innovation and growth."

In the release announcing Bennett's termination, Symantec also reaffirmed its fourth quarter fiscal 2014 outlook, saying that it expects revenue of $1.6 to $1.66 billion, compared to $1.7 billion in the prior-year period. Including special items, it expects its fourth quarter profit to fall somewhere between 29 cents and 31 cents per share compared to 27 cents during the same time in 2013, and excluding those special items expects to see a profit between 40 cents and 42 cents per share, compared to 44 cents per share this same time last year.

Following the news that Bennett has been fired, shares of Symantec halted briefly in Thursday's after-hours trading session after finishing the day with a 1.58%; when trading resumed, shares fell as much as 10%. They've since recovered some of those losses and are currently down about 6.5%. After finishing 2013 trading with a 20% gain, Symantec shares have fallen 12.3% during the first two and a half months of 2014.