Shares of enterprise and consumer software vendor Symantec (SYMC) are down $2.64, or almost 13%, at $18.26, after the company yesterday afternoon abruptly announced it terminated CEO Steve Bennett, saying it needed new management to "driver on the next stage of Symantec's product innovation and growth.

The stock has gotten gotten five downgrades this morning, that I can see, from Jefferies & Co., R.W. Baird, UBS, MKM Partners, and Cowen & Co.

The bears, including those downgrading today, see disruption despite much progress made by Bennett to date. Some bulls, however, defended the shares, pointing out the low valuation.

Brent Thill, UBS: Cuts his rating to Neutral from Buy, and cuts his price target to $21 from $27. "Our Buy-rating was predicated on the turnaround abilities of prior CEO Steve Bennett, view there was 1,000bp of OM expansion over the next few years, and belief that it could innovate in product. We believe the Board was happy w/ Steve Bennett's operational performance but less so with the product strategy which increases the risk profile of revs and leverage going forward. Don't see much downside at 11x CY14e EPS, 3% div yield, but no catalysts and absent a permanent CEO and new CFO arriving product strategy, revs growth and margins too opaque [...] Key risk is that the new product portfolio and strategy expected to be unveiled at the Vision user conference in May is not ready or worse underwhelming which raises earnings risk. If the Board felt a new CEO was needed to address the product direction and/or quicken the pace of the existing strategy, both scenarios suggest a prolonged turn in bookings which we see as required to resume stock momentum."

Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen & Co.: Cuts his rating to Market Perform from Outperform, and cuts his price target to $20 from $25. "Mr. Bennett's hiring had precipitated a wave of investor optimism that the former Intuit CEO could transform SYMC into a co. capable of material operating improvement. His strategy was, in our view, necessarily far-reaching, and some disruption had always been inevitable. Nonetheless, the impact to bookings over the last two quarters had been more painful than most, including us, had expected. We also suspect part of the reason for the change in leadership is that Bennett is short on technical expertise (and we note the co.'s integrated product strategy has taken longer to deliver than expected), although we don't believe that tells the entire story. While SYMC hasn't changed its long-term targets, the co. indicated that it will accelerate its focus on product innovation and growth. That may cause some investors to believe the co. will taper its cost-cutting. For our part, we continue to believe 30%+ op. margins by FY17 is very achievable; however, given the changing of the guard, our prior view that SYMC could be a mid 30s op. margin company in 3-4 years no longer holds. We also continue to be very skeptical of SYMC's 5%+ growth target, regardless of how much increased emphasis SYMC may opt to place on this going forward."

Walter Pritchard, Citigroup: Reiterates a Buy rating, and a $28 price target. "It is clear the move was precipitated by the board and was made because the board didn't believe the company was moving fast enough towards goals outlined. Bennett had only been CEO for six quarters and had made significant change in the process. It is not clear in our view what could have moved faster. Perhaps waiting three quarters to make significant changes to the sales organization was the issue, although its unlikely this would have been decided without input from the board. September appeared to be the bottom (~17% billings decline), with billings declining 10% in December. We forecast "less bad" March (-5%) and then flattening of billings in FY15 and a return to modest growth. Our inputs up until this point continue to lead us to believe this is likely. The company did reiterate March quarter guidance, although with timing of quarter close in 10 days, it is not clear anyone can have great confidence in this reiteration. This is all in the stock at 8x cash flow, in our view иC Shares are cheap and investor sentiment is worst in our space. Its been rare that software stocks trade below 8x cash flow, suggesting the market believes numbers are still too aggressive. While fundamentals may have taken a turn for the worst, we note that our FCF (unleveled) estimate for FY14 ($1.28B) is below average of last year's ($1.48B) and looks reasonable to us."

Raimo Lenschow, Barclays: Reiterates an Overweight rating, and a $26 price target. "Though it was clear that operational improvements were necessary at the company, it was likely too much and too quick for the BoD which ultimately led to today's event. While Symantec is committing to the previously set guidance, in addition to the "5/30" long-term goal set by Steve Bennett, it is nevertheless a short-term blow to the investment case. However, we feel longer term Symantec's positioning in the industry and the current valuation (c. 10x CY15 PE), which is one of the cheapest in our sector still supports the potential for share price improvement and ongoing earnings and cash flow growth [бн] Given that Mr. Brown expressed his wishes not to be considered for the permanent role, the candidate will likely be external though we would expect much of the operational actions introduced by Mr. Bennett to remain intact as in our view they were generally the right steps to take but were executed upon much too aggressively, like realigning 90% of the company's sales force in a single quarter and creating a sizable billings and deferred revenue hole for a mostly recurring revenue business model [бн] Given recent management hires, particularly the appointment of Amit Mital as Chief Technology Officer, who joined the company after a 20-year career at Microsoft, we believe that from a product perspective the company is still generally well positioned in the industry. We would also note that interim CEO Mike Brown does have public company CEO experience, joining Symantec through the acquisition of VERITAS Software in July 2005, and had also previously served as chairman and chief executive officer of Quantum Corporation which is likely to provide some level of business continuity throughout this transition."