How to Win at Black Friday Deals

Visit Walmart or Walmart.com to stretch your Black Friday shopping dollars even further than normal. Black Friday is the Friday after Thanksgiving and has been considered the unofficial start of the holiday shopping season since the early 1920s, but it wasn't until the 1960s that the term "Black Friday" began to be heavily used by stores advertising deep discounts. At Walmart, we offer various programs to help you get everything you need this holiday season while staying within your budget, including Early Access to Black Friday Deals, Pre-Black Friday, Black Friday Online Specials. Be sure to check out our Black Friday Ad!

How Can I Find the Best Black Friday Gifts on Walmart.com?

At Walmart, we realize everyone has a unique shopping style that doesn't necessarily include a visit to the store. If you prefer the convenience of shopping online, Walmart.com has Black Friday offerings you can access from your computer or mobile device.

Sign up ahead of time for the Early Access email program to get updates on Black Friday specials sent directly to your inbox. This way, you can be among the first to see our Black Friday ads. This helps you get a jump on your holiday shopping by grabbing up some of the best values of the year. Big savings are available in many departments, and while you're waiting on the big day to get here, check out our gift guide to get helpful ideas for everyone on your shopping list. Be sure to also visit the Dare to Compare section of the website, where we check prices all day long so you don't have to.

Before you begin your shopping, make a plan. Review the Black Friday ads and emails to see which items are available online and which are in stores. Decide what you want to order online or for pickup in a store. Also break out what you will buy at the store on Black Friday. Prepare your online order and plan your store visit. Remember to take note of the times listed as some items may only be available during specific time slots

How Can I Save on Black Friday in Walmart Stores?

Visiting your local Walmart store on Black Friday lets you find plenty of savings on the gifts you want. Specials start at times announced in our ads, and in addition to advertised Black Friday specials, an in-store excursion on the day after Thanksgiving can reveal some unexpected savings. With our Every Day Low Prices, you will find many items you can cross off your shopping list. In our stores you will find Clearance items, Rollbacks, Special Buys and our Value Bundles that give you more for your money in addition to advertised specials.

Whether you choose to visit us in-store or online, take advantage of our holiday savings offers. Our Every Day Low Prices, combined with Black Friday items and our wide selection, help you save time and find everything you need in fewer stops. And that's how you win at Black Friday shopping.