4. As of noon trading, 4. As of noon trading, Cigna CI ) is down $1.02 (-1.1%) to $89.03 on light volume. Thus far, 427,243 shares of Cigna exchanged hands as compared to its average daily volume of 1.5 million shares. The stock has ranged in price between $88.78-$90.63 after having opened the day at $90.24 as compared to the previous trading day's close of $90.05. Cigna Corporation, a health services organization, provides insurance and related products and services in the United States and internationally. Cigna has a market cap of $24.3 billion and is part of the health services industry. The company has a P/E ratio of 13.4, below the S&P 500 P/E ratio of 17.7. Shares are up 2.9% year-to-date as of the close of trading on Thursday. Currently there are 8 analysts that rate Cigna a buy, no analysts rate it a sell, and 6 rate it a hold. Cigna Corporation, a health services organization, provides insurance and related products and services in the United States and internationally. Cigna has a market cap of $24.3 billion and is part of the health services industry. The company has a P/E ratio of 13.4, below the S&P 500 P/E ratio of 17.7. Shares are up 2.9% year-to-date as of the close of trading on Thursday. Currently there are 8 analysts that rate Cigna a buy, no analysts rate it a sell, and 6 rate it a hold. TheStreet Ratings rates Cigna as a TheStreet Ratings ratesas a buy . The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, largely solid financial position with reasonable debt levels by most measures, solid stock price performance, growth in earnings per share and good cash flow from operations. We feel these strengths outweigh the fact that the company shows low profit margins. Get the full Cigna Ratings Report now. STOCKS TO BUY: TheStreet Quant Ratings has identified a handful of stocks that can potentially TRIPLE in the next 12 months. Learn more.

3. As of noon trading, 3. As of noon trading, Valeant Pharmaceuticals International VRX ) is down $0.75 (-0.6%) to $131.42 on average volume. Thus far, 826,653 shares of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International exchanged hands as compared to its average daily volume of 1.1 million shares. The stock has ranged in price between $129.69-$132.08 after having opened the day at $131.81 as compared to the previous trading day's close of $132.17. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company, develops, manufactures, and markets pharmaceutical products and medical devices in the areas of neurology, dermatology, and branded generics. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International has a market cap of $42.7 billion and is part of the drugs industry. Shares are up 12.6% year-to-date as of the close of trading on Thursday. Currently there are 9 analysts that rate Valeant Pharmaceuticals International a buy, 1 analyst rates it a sell, and none rate it a hold. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical company, develops, manufactures, and markets pharmaceutical products and medical devices in the areas of neurology, dermatology, and branded generics. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International has a market cap of $42.7 billion and is part of the drugs industry. Shares are up 12.6% year-to-date as of the close of trading on Thursday. Currently there are 9 analysts that rate Valeant Pharmaceuticals International a buy, 1 analyst rates it a sell, and none rate it a hold. TheStreet Ratings rates Valeant Pharmaceuticals International as a TheStreet Ratings ratesas a hold . The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its robust revenue growth, solid stock price performance and good cash flow from operations. However, as a counter to these strengths, we also find weaknesses including feeble growth in the company's earnings per share, deteriorating net income and generally higher debt management risk. Get the full Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Ratings Report now. STOCKS TO BUY: TheStreet Quant Ratings has identified a handful of stocks that can potentially TRIPLE in the next 12 months. Learn more.

2. As of noon trading, 2. As of noon trading, WellPoint WLP ) is down $1.01 (-1.1%) to $91.99 on light volume. Thus far, 675,245 shares of WellPoint exchanged hands as compared to its average daily volume of 2.1 million shares. The stock has ranged in price between $90.86-$92.95 after having opened the day at $92.74 as compared to the previous trading day's close of $93.00. WellPoint, Inc., a health benefits company, through its subsidiaries, offers network-based managed care plans to large and small employer, individual, Medicaid, and senior markets in the United States. The company operates through three segments: Commercial, Consumer, and Other. WellPoint has a market cap of $27.2 billion and is part of the health services industry. The company has a P/E ratio of 10.0, below the S&P 500 P/E ratio of 17.7. Shares are up 0.7% year-to-date as of the close of trading on Thursday. Currently there are 5 analysts that rate WellPoint a buy, no analysts rate it a sell, and 11 rate it a hold. WellPoint, Inc., a health benefits company, through its subsidiaries, offers network-based managed care plans to large and small employer, individual, Medicaid, and senior markets in the United States. The company operates through three segments: Commercial, Consumer, and Other. WellPoint has a market cap of $27.2 billion and is part of the health services industry. The company has a P/E ratio of 10.0, below the S&P 500 P/E ratio of 17.7. Shares are up 0.7% year-to-date as of the close of trading on Thursday. Currently there are 5 analysts that rate WellPoint a buy, no analysts rate it a sell, and 11 rate it a hold. TheStreet Ratings rates WellPoint as a TheStreet Ratings ratesas a buy . The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, largely solid financial position with reasonable debt levels by most measures, solid stock price performance, attractive valuation levels and good cash flow from operations. We feel these strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had sub par growth in net income. Get the full WellPoint Ratings Report now. STOCKS TO BUY: TheStreet Quant Ratings has identified a handful of stocks that can potentially TRIPLE in the next 12 months. Learn more.