Gold futures ended higher for a second straight session on Tuesday, as markets continued to closely monitor the tussle between Russia and the West over Ukraine, even as the crucial referendum in Crimea comes up for vote next Sunday to determine the status of the region. The referendum will decide if people in the Crimea region would prefer to stay with Ukraine or join Russia.

Gold prices also found support on renewed safe haven buying, as investors continued to mull over some weak Chinese trade data which suggests the sluggishness in the nation's economy may be more than initially envisaged.

The ongoing tension in Ukraine continued with the country's parliament warning the Crimean assembly that it would be dissolved if the referendum slated for Sunday takes place, which calls for the region to join Russia. The Crimean assembly has been given time until Wednesday to stop the referendum.

Gold for April delivery, the most actively traded contract, gained $5.20 or 0.4 percent to close at $1,346.70 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange on Tuesday.

Gold for April delivery scaled an intraday high of $1,353.00 and a low of $1,337.80 an ounce.

Yesterday, gold futures settled higher, after data on Saturday showed China's exports in February plummeted over 18 percent from last year.

Holdings of SPDR Gold Trust, the world's largest gold-backed exchange-traded fund, rose to 812.70 tons from its previous close.

The dollar index, which tracks the U.S. unit against six major currencies, traded at 79.79 on Tuesday, up from its previous close of 79.75 late Monday in North American trade. The dollar scaled a high of 79.93 intraday and a low of 79.72.

The euro traded lower against the dollar at $1.3861 on Tuesday, as compared to its previous close of $1.3877 late Monday in North America. The euro scaled a high of $1.3879 intraday and a low of $1.3834.

In economic news, wholesale inventories in the U.S. rose more than expected in January, a report from the Commerce Department showed Tuesday, notwithstanding a steep drop in wholesale sales. Wholesale inventories climbed 0.6 percent in January following an upwardly revised 0.4 percent increase in December. Economists expected inventories to rise by 0.4 percent compared to the 0.3 percent growth originally reported for the previous month.

Meanwhile, the Commerce Department said wholesale sales tumbled 1.9 percent in January after inching up 0.1 percent in December. The drop was partly due to a 3.2 percent decrease in sales of non-durable goods, which edged up by 0.2 percent in the previous month.

From Europe, industrial production growth in U.K. slowed more-than-expected in January as severe weather conditions hampered oil production in the North Sea, data from the Office for National Statistics showed Tuesday. Nonetheless, manufacturing output topped expectations with broad-based expansion in most sub-sectors offsetting sharp contraction in pharmaceutical products. U.K.'s industrial output in January edged up 0.1 percent from December. The output was forecast to expand 0.2 percent, following December's 0.5 percent rise.

Elsewhere, the Bank of Japan on Tuesday refrained from initiating additional easing ahead of the planned sales tax hike in April that could dent the moderate recovery. The central bank's policy board decided by a unanimous vote to leave the size of its monetary easing unchanged. Accordingly, the bank will continue to increase the monetary base at an annual pace of JPY 60 trillion to JPY 70 trillion.

Investors will also focus on a slew of economic data out of the U.S. this week, ahead of the monetary policy meet of the U.S. Federal Reserve due March 19. The major releases slated for the week include weekly jobless claims, business inventories report, producer price index, consumer sentiment, and retail sales report.