Retailer launches Black Friday-like prices timed to the first days of spring to kick off the season

BENTONVILLE, Ark. 每 March 20, 2014 每 Walmart is kicking off spring like never before with its largest outdoor living, lawn and garden event of the year, featuring Black Friday-like prices. Starting at 8 a.m. on Friday, March 21, through March 29, Walmart＊s Spring Savings Event will offer its lowest prices of the season on more than 60 outdoor essentials.

With nearly twice as many locations compared to the leading home improvement store, Walmart＊s Spring Savings Event will include $1.97 per bag red, black or brown mulch as well as brand-name lawn mowers and grills for less from Murray, Snapper, Weber, Char-Broil and more. In fact, Walmart has the largest selection of lawn mowers and grills under $200, the most popular price range for these items.

※Nobody does Black Friday better than Walmart, and we＊re bringing that same philosophy to our new outdoor living, lawn and garden event by offering incredibly low prices on the products our customers are looking for,§ said Michelle Gloeckler, senior vice president of home, Walmart U.S. ※Given the extreme winter many of our customers experienced, we know they are preparing to restore their gardens and outdoor living spaces. This event will help them save money while they transition into the new season.§

Highlights from Walmart＊s Spring Savings Event feature everything from Miracle-Gro soil and Roundup weed killer to Black & Decker tools, ColorPlace interior and exterior paint and Westinghouse lighting. Top deals include:
 Lawn mowers from brands like Murray and Snapper, such as a Murray side-discharge mower 每 $144

The retailer＊s lawn and garden offerings, including plants, are also tailored to the climates of each region. For example, customers in southern markets such as Dallas and Atlanta will find warmer-season plants including petunias and marigolds. Customers in northern markets like Chicago and New York will find cold-tolerant varieties such as pansies and snapdragons. Walmart also offers a guarantee for live plants. The retailer will replace perennials, trees, shrubs and foliage within one year with a receipt.* 

 A large percentage of Walmart＊s outdoor living merchandise is part of Walmart＊s domestic manufacturing program. In addition, customers can trust Walmart for low prices on outdoor merchandise with the retailer＊s Ad Match Guarantee, which will match competitor prices on an identical item, right at the register. More information on Walmart＊s Spring Savings Event is available at news.walmart.com/outdoorliving.

About Walmart 

 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) helps people around the world save money and live better 每 anytime and anywhere -- in retail stores, online, and through their mobile devices. Each week, more than 245 million customers and members visit our 11,302 stores under 71 banners in 27 countries and ecommerce websites in 10 countries. With fiscal year 2014 sales of over $473 billion, Walmart employs more than 2 million associates worldwide. Walmart continues to be a leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting http://corporate.walmart.com on Facebook at http://facebook.com/walmart and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/walmart. Online merchandise sales are available at http://www.walmart.com and http://www.samsclub.com.



 *Guarantee does not apply to annuals



 *Products available while supplies last