Pueblo County's unemployment rate rose back above 5 percent for the first time in 17 months in January, the state Department of Labor reported Monday.

The report for February is due later this month. Each year, the state Department of Labor delays the release of the January report by a few weeks in order to make revisions to the prior year data.

It will be several more months before the reports account for last week's layoff announcements.

St. Mary-Corwin Medical Center announced plans to cut another 300 jobs as part of its downsizing. Albertsons/Safeway said it will close the 60-worker South Side Albertsons in April.

January's jobless rate of 5.1 percent reflects a continued slowdown in job growth and also an increase in the local labor pool that began in the second half of 2017.

The downturn followed several years of job gains as Pueblo recovered from the 2007-2009 U.S. recession. Before climbing, the local jobless rate was down to a near record low of 3.8 percent last March and April.

For the full year, Pueblo's 2017 unemployment rate of 4.3 percent was its lowest since 4 percent in 2000, the state said.

The shift began after last spring.

The state labor department said recently that its revised 2017 employment data showed that Pueblo's job growth stalled out starting in the summer and that its unemployment rate was on the rise, partly as more people re-entered the labor force in search of a job.

In January, the number of people employed full- or part-time was an estimated 70,879, an increase of only about 300 from a year ago The number of job seekers was up 600.

The last time Pueblo's rate was at 5 percent or higher was July 2016. The January rate was up from 4.6 percent in December.

Last springs's closure of the Express Scripts customer service call center contributed to the weakening employment picture. The center employed about 300 at the time of its closure and about 500 during its peak years of operations.

As for recent job additions, AT&T said recently that it plans to hire about 24 more workers at its customer service call center. Meanwhile, local leaders say that employer interest in Pueblo remains strong and they're hopeful for future job announcements.

Statewide, Colorado reported another month of strong job gains in January, concentrated in the state's other metro areas.

An estimated 7,000 nonfarm payroll jobs were added statewide during the month and Colorado's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate held at 3 percent.

Boulder-Longmont and Fort Collins reported the state's lowest non-seasonally adjusted unemployment rates at 2.9 percent. Greeley reported the third lowest rate of 3.1 percent. Colorado Springs' rate was 3.9 percent.

Colorado's job growth rate for 2017 was a solid 2.2 percent, revised up from a previous estimate of 1.9 percent and much faster than the U.S. rate of 1.6 percent, the state labor department said. The state added 67,400 nonfarm payroll jobs over the prior 12 months.