Two years ago, a video game called Giants: Citizen Kabuto underwent plastic surgery right before its release.

The blood ÿ shed liberally by characters in the action-strategy game ÿ was changed from red to green, and a female character suddenly sported a bikini top after appearing topless in pre-publication screenshots. These changes were made to satisfy content restrictions imposed by Wal-Mart, the nation's largest mass retailer of video games.

"It became clear that we would lose mass distribution if we didn't give her a top," said Bob Stevenson, CEO of developer Planet Moon Studios. "No one wanted to take that gamble."

Wal-Mart sells 25 percent of the computer and video games purchased annually in the United States, a share worth $1.58 billion in 2001, according to the Interactive Digital Software Association and NPDFunworld, the industry's data clearinghouse.

With that kind of clout, the discount retailer can exercise considerable influence over the kinds of titles that find their way into consumers' hands, simply by determining what goes on its shelves. Since 2000, the chain has blocked sales of mature-rated titles to minors, as defined by the Entertainment Software Ratings Board. An M rating means a title is not recommended for children ages 16 and under.

However, Wal-Mart's policies go far beyond saying no to a 16-year old at the cash register, say game developers and industry analysts. The company's purchasing managers also review games before they're published to ensure every aspect of the product ÿ from packaging to content ÿ toes the line with the retailer's conservative policies.

Established game publishers like id Software have a large enough customer base to design independently of Wal-Mart. Other companies, like Activision, can afford to release a special Wal-Mart version of a game like Quake II or GT Interactive's NAM, which sold only in Wal-Mart as NAPALM.

However, other publishers ÿ especially those that rely on the discount market for the bulk of their profits ÿ must make adjustments based on the input of Wal-Mart's buyers. If they don't, their products won't be sold at Wal-Mart.

"The buyers just aren't going to get excited over a title that won't sell well and may refuse to pick it up if changes aren't made to content or packaging," said Todd Hollenshead, CEO of id Software. "I think that's a heavy-handed approach and at times may cross the censorship line."

At Wal-Mart's request, the box for a popular title called Gabriel Knight 3: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned was changed simply to say Gabriel Knight 3 in the version that appeared in the chain's stores. "Wal-Mart was the only customer for whom we removed 'Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned' from the packaging," said Hillary Crowley, a spokeswoman for Sierra, the game's manufacturer.

Similarly, 3D Realms released a special Wal-Mart edition of its first-person shooter title, Duke Nukem 3D. That version was sold only with parental locks switched on, limiting the amount of gore displayed during the game.

Besides blood and guts, nudity earns a thumbs-down from the retail giant. Acclaim's BMX XXX got the company's cold shoulder because of its topless female motorbike riders and dancers. "We're not going to carry any software with any vulgarity or nudity ÿ we're just not going to do it," Wal-Mart spokesman Tom Williams told Reuters in October, a month before the game's release to the public.

Wal-Mart did not reply to repeated requests for an interview.

Acclaim eventually stripped the nudity from the Playstation2 version of BMX XXX at Sony's request, said Alan Lewis, the company's director of public relations. Such editorial changes are troubling to longtime game developer Richard "Levelord" Gray. "Why I can kill and maim but not show even an exposed nipple, is beyond me," he said. "My audience is missing out on a lot of fun because of this retailer censorship."

That said, Wal-Mart has been known to carry some M-rated titles, as long as they are big sellers. An example is Grand Theft Auto III, which has prostitutes as characters. It sold more than 7 million copies.

Wal-Mart's critics say its limitations on video games are unnecessary. Since all titles sold by the retailer must already contain a label from the Entertainment Software Ratings Board, consumers can make their own decisions about buying a particular game, they say. Instead, Wal-Mart buyers use the ratings to screen out titles they don't want to sell. A Teen rating can open Wal-Mart's doors for developers. An M rating can shut them out.

"It's almost impossible to get a game with nudity on the shelves in the major retail stores, which is ridiculous," said Kurt Squire, research manager for MIT's Comparative Media Studies Games-to-Teach project. Restrictions imposed by Wal-Mart and other stores, such as Toys R Us and Target, could cause a chilling effect on the types of games that are produced, he said.

"The biggest danger facing the games industry may be something like the comics code of the '50s, which seriously limited what content comics could deal with, resulting in the marginalization of the medium," he said. "Combined with a lack of experimentation in the games industry, that could cause long-term problems."