Metro Orlando's jobless rate crept up ！ from 5.6 percent in December to 6 percent in January ！ but economists cautioned against reading too much into those numbers.

Florida's unemployment rate dipped to 6.1 percent in January as the state added almost 193,000 jobs in a 12-month period, Gov. Rick Scott announced Monday in Orlando.

Metro-area jobless numbers are not seasonally adjusted ！ meaning they don't account for normal, seasonal changes in hiring and firing ！ and can swing widely from month to month.

Total non-agricultural employment for the metro area fell by about 20,000, but Wells Fargo Senior Economist Mark Vitner said that was fairly typical for January.

Vitner said about half of those losses came from the retail and leisure-hospitality sectors, which often cut staff after the holiday season.

"I would not worry about the non-seasonally adjusted ´ rise in the unemployment rate in the Orlando area," Vitner wrote in an email. "On a year-to-year basis, nonfarm employment is up 3.5 percent, or by 36,400 jobs, which is likely one of the largest percentage increases among any of the nation's largest metropolitan areas."

The region, in fact, led the state in annual job growth, gaining more than 36,000 jobs ！ a 3.5 percent increase ！ in the previous 12 months. The Miami-Miami Beach-Kendall area finished second, with 30,500 jobs.

Scott announced the latest unemployment figures at an event to celebrate the arrival of AgileThought, a Tampa-based technology consulting firm that has opened an office in downtown Orlando. The company plans to add 15 jobs on the first floor of an office tower next to City Hall.

The statewide unemployment rate is now at its lowest rate since June 2008. The jobless rate ticked down from 6.3 percent to 6.1 percent, even though Monday's report showed a loss of 2,600 jobs across Florida.

The unemployment rate and job creation numbers generally move in concert, but not always. The figures are calculated from two different surveys ！ one of households, one of businesses ！ and sometimes produce conflicting results.

The household survey for January found that the number of people who reported they were working grew by 46,000 over the month. But the survey of businesses found companies had reduced payrolls over the month by 2,600.

University of Central Florida economist Sean Snaith said that sort of "noisy" monthly data is one reason to focus instead on the trend line. It shows that unemployment has been falling and that job creation has been growing.