This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

I ... I ... Wal-Mart is to ... try to game stop ... them Gottfried things ... on the Street team and she's here to explain herself ... thank you for joining us ... you've been crunching some numbers tells about a ... while ... E-mail a lot of people see a big name like Wal-Mart coming into the EU didn't use videogames in they say oh no ... this is bad for GameStop stocks down today it's up three percent limits ... and I just think that's an overreaction because first ball ball hearts not the first to try to come into this this is a very attractive businesses has much higher margins than new video games ... so it's worth the lights at best buy Amazon dot com Circuit City back when that was around also tried to get into lots of love ... indeed ... and that Wal-Mart itself even tried to get this back into thousandnine but failed to to pull it off with a kiosk model ... so ... he has ... been able to defend its turf up all along I think the key reason why is because it has a hardcore ... these lovely old BTU e Bay and its ... current core clientele and ended the numbers you've you've crunched also suggests that some premised targeted towards ovens were lost and so I mean it's more targeted toward urban tool for the center of urban areas ... than Wal-Mart ... ALM so if I'm ... you know ... a teenage boy in one of the target customers and GameStop I can walk to Adidas top of my friends and said they view ... Etihad my mom drive me to the ... bcf into the local Walmart ... aam I also ... get gains of ten cc in wealthier states then Wal-Mart I noted that the role of ... them ... from the New York City in and you see them walking around me with what they do very very well and I'm nice business ... the thing that is interesting about warm up though is that you can go trading a new dam ... and then by some male costs of food yet ... and it didn't lead the economy is in many areas still very weak ... would now be a bit of a magnet to draw people in a sign hanging on to Mana ties Summly Zoltek's it certainly could be for certain kind of customer but I argue that that's not really GameStop's customer ... if you're a teen stop customer review to hear more about it and he is the most other things ... there's no way that you would trade ... in your game for milk ... on ... probably Inlet talking like their mommies UK TV ... but ... it's just not the same ... e-mail clientele ... so you say you see them spellbinding has a hold off this one from different demographic gnocchi with that that the traffic ... and the did you also send a very sticky but that they are sticky with ExOne teams has a loyalty program on call power up and I was just reading that it has more than twenty six million members in the US ... I aam and these are people who PDP part of a membership program with I GameStop sell prices fall and has an awful lot of people didn't soulful on teenage boys when they exit and maybe a few other non teenage boys met with a better Muslim you're a much married offering up ... on the Street same ... time Simon Qassam on and this is doubly SJ lie ...