EUR/USD has posted slight gains in the Thursday session. Currently, the pair is trading at 1.1694, up 0.28% on the day. On the release front, the eurozone releases consumer confidence, which is expected to post a decline of -2 for a second straight month. In the U.S, the Philly Fed Manufacturing Index is expected to jump to 17.5 points, while unemployment claims are forecast to climb to 210 thousand. On Friday, Germany and the eurozone release manufacturing PMIs.

U.S President Trump has fired another tariff salvo, and the Chinese have vowed to retaliate. This has become an all-too familiar script, which was repeated on Monday, as the U.S announced 10% tariffs on some $200 billion worth of Chinese goods. Only this time, investors didn¡¯t panic and the euro and other currencies have held their own against the greenback. Why have the currency markets reacted so calmly? Investors appeared to have been ready for a move by Trump, and may be sighing in relief that the tariff was set at 10% rather than at 25%. One senior economist summed up Trump¡¯s most recent salvo as ¡°bad but manageable¡±. However, if the Chinese do indeed retaliate and the U.S takes further measures, this would likely shake up the currency markets and boost the U.S dollar.

U.S construction numbers were a mixed bag on Wednesday. Building Permits disappointed, dropping from 1.31 million to 1.23 million. This was well short of the estimate of 1.31 million and marked the weakest gain since September. There was better news from Housing Starts, which jumped from 1.17 million to 1.28 million, above the estimate of 1.24 million. This was a three-month high. On Thursday, we¡¯ll get a look at Existing Home Sales, which has been on a nasty downtrend, losing ground for four straight months. The indicator is expected to improve slightly, to 5.36 million.

Kiwi jumps on strongest growth in two years

EUR/USD ticked higher in the Asian session but then retracted. The pair has posted small gains in European trade
 1.1718 is the next resistance line

Further levels in both directions:

This article is for general information purposes only. It is not investment advice or a solution to buy or sell securities. Opinions are the authors; not necessarily that of OANDA Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, officers or directors. Leveraged trading is high risk and not suitable for all. You could lose all of your deposited funds.