Symantec downgraded to Equal Weight from Overweight at Morgan Stanley On The Fly: Top five analyst downgrades Catch up on today's top five analyst downgrades with this list compiled by The Fly: 1. Humana (HUM) downgraded to Neutral from Overweight at JPMorgan with analyst Gary Taylor saying insider sales and the August board appointment render it unlikely that acquisition discussions are yet occurring. 2. Viacom (VIAB) downgraded to Sell from Neutral at Citi with analyst Jason Bazinet saying as media and cable companies jockey "for self-preservation," Charter Communications (CHTR) will likely drop, or significantly curtail, distribution of Viacom's content. 3. PTC Therapeutics (PTCT) downgraded to Underweight from Neutral at JPMorgan with analyst Anupam Rama saying the company's valuation remains at near pre-FDA Advisory Committee meetings levels, despite multiple "mixed / inconclusive / negative" updates recently. 4. Medtronic (MDT) downgraded to Market Perform from Outperform at Wells Fargo with analyst Larry Biegelsen saying a "lull" in major product cycles will drive below average organic sales growth over at least the next few quarters. 5. Symantec (SYMC) was downgraded to Underperform from Market Perform at Cowen and to Hold from Buy at Standpoint Research. This list is just a portion of The Fly's full analyst coverage. To see The Fly's full Street Research coverage, click here. Symantec downgraded to Hold from Buy at Standpoint Research Standpoint Research analyst Ronnie Moas downgraded Symantec to Hold saying the shares fairly valued trading at 17 times next year's estimates. Cowen this morning downgraded Symantec to Underperform. As reported previously, Cowen analyst Gregg Moskowitz downgraded Symantec (SYMC) to Underperform from Market Perform as he believes the recent spike in its price following the disclosure of the Equifax (EFX) breach is overdone. He also said its organic growth has been sluggish, its valuation is no longer cheap, and next-gen vendors are gaining traction. Moskowitz maintained his $31 price target on Symantec shares.