Yesterday we reported that mortgage interest rates ticked down on PNC Bank＊s (NYSE:PNC) conventional refinance loans. Luckily, for borrowers, Tuesday＊s improvements haven＊t evaporated a day later, as the updated rate sheet shows no changes in mortgage interest rates. On the other hand, annual percentage rates (APRs) moved lower on some of the refinance loan packages. Currently, the Pittsburgh-headquartered top loan provider advertises the 30-year mortgage loan, for refinancing purposes, at a rate of 4.500% 每 4.750%. The starting rate on the 20-year refinance mortgage is hovering at 4.250% 每 4.500%, according to the most up-to-date information from the lender. Borrowers, who prefer refinancing their existing loans over shorter-term, may be interested to learn that the 15-year FRM is published at a rate of 3.375% 每 3.875% at PNC Bank. With regards to the 10-year fixed rate loan, it can be locked in at a rate of 3.125% 每 3.750%. The bank also updated its home loan rates for today, check the details on them below.

PNC Bank has been offering excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some ideal mortgage solutions at this bank.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to purchase a property, an existing single family home to be used as a primary residence with a loan amount of $200,000. The property is located in Chicago, IL. The interest rate reflects a 30 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

The rate information provided assumes the purpose of the mortgage loan is to refinance an existing mortgage with a loan amount of $200,000. The property is located in Chicago, IL. The interest rate reflects a 45 day rate lock period. The actual mortgage interest rate will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to loan type, credit profile, property type, appraised value, occupancy and loan size.

 Compare Today＊s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Please, note that the current mortgage interest rates above are only estimates. Mortgage rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

As far a current national average interest rates are concerned, Freddie Mac published the results of its weekly Primary Mortgage Market Survey (PMMS) last week, which revealed that the average rate on the 30-year fixed loan tumbled to 4.28% As for the 15-year FRM, the national average rate moved down to 3.32%, the Virginia-based mortgage-buyer anounced in its weekly survey.

More details on PNC Bank＊s mortgage interest rates, borrowing terms and conditions, as well as information on other loan options, can be found on the lender＊s website.