The trading in the U.S. index futures suggest that the markets may search for direction following their recent run up. The major index futures are pointing to a lower opening on Monday. Earlier in the global trading day, weak Chinese trade data weighed down on Asian stocks, with the Chinese market retreating sharply, while the European markets are trading mixed amid a lack of any directional cues. The domestic markets may also face difficulty in finding their footing amid a lack of any meaningful economic and corporate catalysts.

At 6:15 am ET, the Dow futures are receding 19 points and the S&P 500 futures are moving down 2.10 point and the Nasdaq 100 futures are declining 0.75 points.

U.S. stocks extended their advance in the week ended March 7th, as the markets braved the fears generated by geopolitical concerns surrounding the developments in Ukraine and the uncertainty triggered by mixed economic data.

On the economic front, the unfolding week's economic calendar is backend loaded, with some first-tier economic data due only in the later part of the week. The spotlight is likely to be on the Commerce Department's retail sales report for February, the weekly jobless claims report and preliminary results of the consumer sentiment survey by Reuters and the University of Michigan.

The Commerce Department's wholesale and business inventories reports for January, the Treasury Budget for February, the Labor Department's import and export prices data for February, the producer price inflation report for February and Treasury auctions of 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds round up the economic events of the week.

Chicago Fed President Charles Evans will speak on the economy and monetary policy in Columbus, Georgia at 12:40 am ET.

Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) announced preliminary fourth quarter results to reflect the impact of adverse weather conditions. The company now expects comparable store sales growth of 1.7 percent compared to its previous guidance of 2-4 percent growth. The company also lowered its fourth quarter earnings guidance to $1.57-$1.61 per share from $1.60-$1.67 per share. The company also said that the estimated impact on net earnings for the first quarter was 6-7 cents per share.

United Rentals (URI) announced an asset purchase agreement to acquire National Pump, along with GulfCo, a two branch rental business also based in Texas, for a purchase price of $780 million. The company expects the deal to be accretive to its free cash flow and earnings per share in 2014.

Casey's General (CASY), FuelCell Energy (FCEL), Novavax (NVAX), Tech Data (TECD) and United Natural Foods (UNFI) are among the companies due to release their quarterly results after the close of trading.

The Asian markets retreated amid profit taking, as the recent run up and soft Chinese trade data generated negative sentiment. The Chinese market plunged close to 3 percent and the Japanese and Hong Kong markets also retreated sharply.

Japan's Nikkei 225 average opened lower and declined steadily till the afternoon. Thereafter, the index moved sideways before closing down 153.93 points or 1.01 percent at 15,120. Australia's All Ordinaries languished below the unchanged line throughout the session before closing down 46.20 points or 0.84 percent at 5,431. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed at 22,265, down 395.56 points or 1.75 percent, and China's Shanghai Composite Index plunged 58.84 points or 2.86 percent before closing at 1,999, closing below the 2,000 level for the first time since January 20th, 2914.

On the economic front, a report released by Chinese General Administration of Customs showed that Chinese exports declined 18.1 percent year-over-year in February compared to a 10.1 percent increase in imports. Consequently, the trade balance turned to a deficit of $22.98 billion from a surplus of $31.86 billion last5 year. The combined data for January and February to smooth out the volatility caused by the Lunar New Year holidays showed that exports fell 1.6 percent but imports rose 10 percent resulting in a 79.1 percent drop in the trade surplus to $8.89 billion.

Separate data released by the Chinese National Bureau of Statistics showed that annual consumer price inflation in Chine eased to 2 percent in February from 2.5 percent in January, with the drop coming in line with estimates.

Final estimates released by Japan's Cabinet Office reported that Japan's fourth quarter GDP was downwardly revised to 0.2 percent quarter-over-quarter from the 0.3 percent estimated earlier. The downward revision was in line with estimates.

Overall bank lending in Japan was up 2.4 percent year-over-year in February, according to data released by the Bank of Japan. This was down from 2.5 percent in January.

After a weak start, European stocks have recovered and are currently trading in positive territory.

In corporate news, Bouygues agreed to sell part of its mobile phone network and a portfolio of frequencies to smaller peer Ilaid SA's Free in a deal valued at up to 1.8 billion euros or $2.5 billion. Unilever bought a majority stake in Chinese water purification company Qinyuan Group for an undisclosed amount.

Sentix released the results of its investor sentiment survey, which showed that confidence among investors in the eurozone remained almost unchanged in March. The corresponding index came in at 13.9 compared to 15 in February.