Fewer enrollees is hardly ideal, and 2018 marks the second consecutive year in which sign-ups declined, after growing from 2014 through 2016. The 2017 and 2018 open enrollment periods were the first ones under the Trump administration.

The results among some of the state-run exchanges, over which the federal government has less influence, suggest the health insurance exchanges work better for consumers when the people in charge aren＊t actively trying to make them worse.

Eleven states and the District of Columbia manage their own health insurance exchanges, and five other states handle many of the exchange＊s functions even though their residents use the federal HealthCare.gov system to enroll instead of a state-run website.

While there＊s a lot of variation among the states 求 some state-run exchanges, like California, shrunk this year, while some federally run exchanges grew 求 the underlying lesson appears to be that working to get people covered is more effective than making it harder for them.

The Trump administration began undermining health insurance exchange enrollment almost immediately after the inauguration last year by canceling advertising that President Barack Obama＊s administration had planned for the end of the 2017 sign-up campaign, which began under Obama and closed out shortly after Trump took office.

Trump cut of billions of dollars in repayments owed to health insurers serving the poorest Obamacare enrollees. Under the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies must provide ※cost-sharing reductions§ that shrink out-of-pocket costs like deductibles and copayments to the lowest-income customers. The federal government is supposed to reimburse them, but Trump stopped doing so last fall.

That led to huge premium hikes that were even bigger than they otherwise would＊ve been. In a twist, this move wound up making better insurance more affordable for a lot of subsidized consumers, even as it massively raised prices for middle-class consumers who earn too much to qualify for financial assistance.

Most of the state-run exchanges opted for later deadlines, including all the way until Jan. 31 on Covered California and New York State of Health. And instead of scaling back their consumer assistance and public education, they ramped it up 求 partly in response to the Trump administration＊s efforts to weaken the exchanges and suppress enrollment.

※Our ability to extend our open enrollment period, our ability to control our marketing and outreach budget, our ability and quickly and simply mitigate the impact of the defunding of CSRs 求 cost-sharing reductions 求 right before open enrollment started and our ability to serve our customers in their community led to a very successful open enrollment,§ Zachary Sherman, the director of Rhode Island＊s HealthSource RI, said during the conference call.

This change in law is expected to result in fewer enrollees 求 and particularly fewer healthy consumers who would be paying more in premiums they take out in medical expenses. This will raise rates and, though subsidized enrollees will be protected, those with higher incomes will have to pay full price or go without coverage.

The administration also published a regulation last month allowing more businesses to join together to form ※association health plans.§ This might save some small companies money, but it has the potential to draw even more healthy people from the exchanges, causing prices in those marketplaces to rise more.