**UPDATE: Given the enormous interest and response from readers, including many Walmart employees, vendors and other associates, I will continue to update this story on a new Page Five as more emails come in. Of course, if we receive an official Walmart response, I'll include that as well. 



NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- As I have noted in recent days, the response to my recent Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) stories has been nothing short of overwhelming.

It all started with 24 Pictures From a Walmart Store That Make Sears Look Classy.

A considerable portion of it comes from readers who work at Walmart. Many of the emails I have received from Walmart employees, independent of one another, corroborate one another. I'll publish a representative sampling in this article.

Of course, I keep identities anonymous if that was what was requested. In other cases, I mention specific stores but do not include details that would out specific individuals.

I have repeatedly asked Walmart for comment and have received no response.

The responses I received from readers indicates a systemic problem at Walmart -- one created by folks at the corporate level, not on the ground, in retail stores. In fact, given the position Walmart appears to have put many of its retail workers in, it's amazing enough of them can keep it together well enough to keep the business running. Without considerable intervention, this can't possibly end well. In fact, I really believe we're watching a failure unfold in front of our eyes. But it's one we're watching spring from the ground up, even though the people on the ground should not be held culpable.

If Walmart doesn't act fast to right the ship, disgruntled employees and dirty stores might become more than a minor irritation. They could further damage the business and, in turn, the company's stock price.

First, consider the following (lightly edited, bold emphasis added) email from a Walmart employee, who will remain completely anonymous:

I address the excuse that the mess I photo-illustrated at the South LA Walmart exists because of "resets" (wholesale reshaping/restocking of large sections of a store) in Monday's Walmart: Retail's Biggest Embarrassment.

The emailer continues by outlining what happens on the ground as a result of this understaffing:

The emailer closes with this:

Another emailer corroborates the original emailer's statement regarding "resets" with the following correspondence: