China¡¯s CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) plunged to the lowest level in five years and the yuan weakened as an unexpected drop in exports spurred concern that the world¡¯s second-

largest economy is slowing.

The index of the largest Chinese stocks slid 3.3 percent to 2,097.79 at the close, the lowest since February 2009, while the Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 2.9 percent, the most since June. The yuan fell 0.2 percent to 6.1385 per dollar. Money-market rates slumped to a 21-month low amid speculation demand for cash is diminishing as economic growth weakens.

Overseas shipments plunged 18.1 percent in February, compared with analysts¡¯ median estimate for a 7.5 percent increase, as distortions from the Lunar New Year holiday made forecasting more difficult. Investors are looking for policy guidance from this month¡¯s National People¡¯s Congress in Beijing amid concerns over slowing growth and a flood of new share sales.

¡°There¡¯s a slew of bad news today - lousy economic data, IPOs may be restarting, the policy meeting is ending soon with no surprises and the Ukraine situation isn¡¯t helping,¡± said Xu Shengjun, an analyst at Jianghai Securities Co. in Shanghai. ¡°The market is being dragged down by all these factors, I don¡¯t see any positive stories today.¡±

Jiangxi Copper Co. led declines for material producers, slumping 5.8 percent as copper prices on the Shanghai exchange plunged by the 5 percent daily limit. China is the biggest consumer of commodities from copper to iron ore and rubber.

Poly Real Estate Group Co. tumbled 4.8 percent after the developer reported a 8.4 percent drop in sales for last month. A weaker yuan is boosting dollar borrowing costs for Chinese developers already grappling with a domestic property-market crackdown and slowing sales.

The drop in exports highlights the challenges for Premier Li Keqiang in achieving this year¡¯s economic growth target of 7.5 percent. Li announced the goal last week at the opening of the annual meeting of the NPC, a pace unchanged from last year. Imports rose 10.1 percent from a year earlier, leaving a trade deficit of $23 billion, the biggest in two years.