Northwest Iowa ¡ª Northwest Iowans no longer can procrastinate when it comes to health insurance. When the annual open enrollment period ends on March 31, most people will be unable to purchase individual health coverage from any source until the next open enrollment period this fall.

Iowa State University Extension Family Finance Specialist Suzanne Bartholomae says that it has been widely publicized that the open enrollment period for the new Health Insurance Marketplace at www.healthcare.gov ends on March 31, but most people are unaware that the term ¡°open enrollment period¡± applies not only to the official Health Insurance Marketplace, but also to all individual health insurance policies. She says that means that outside of the designated open enrollment period, most people who want to purchase health insurance on the individual market will be unable to purchase health insurance anywhere.

We talked to Extension Specialist Jan Monahan, who tells us about the fines that will go into effect if you don¡¯t have health insurance by the deadline.



 Click or tap the play button above or this link to listen.

The 2014 open enrollment period was set for a full six months to provide time for people to learn about the new health insurance system. In the future, however, the annual open enrollment period will be shorter, about two months starting in autumn each year.

Group plans will continue to be open to new group members; for example, newly-hired employees will be able to enroll in the employer¡¯s health insurance plan regardless of what time of the year they are hired or during their employer¡¯s annual open enrollment. But those who purchase insurance in the individual market must do so this month or be prepared to wait until the fall 2014 open enrollment period.

Monahan tells us where you can go locally for more information.



 Click or tap the play button above or this link to listen.

She says you can also go to a community health center such as Promise Community Health Center in Sioux Center. She suggests that you set up an appointment by calling 712-722-1700.

Free assistance with health insurance enrollment is available. Find help at https://localhelp.healthcare.gov or at www.getcoveredamerica.org. ISU Extension and Outreach offers informational workshops about the changes brought by the Affordable Care Act. To learn more, go to http://www.extension.iastate.edu/humansciences/health-insurance or contact any ISU Extension and Outreach county office to find local workshops.