Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay faces four felony counts after being arrested Sunday night by Carmel, Ind., police on preliminary charges of driving under the influence and possession of a controlled substance, police said.

He was released from Hamilton County Jail at 1:30 p.m. ET Monday. He made no public comments as he exited the building and entered a BMW there to pick him up.

The Colts later issued a statement: "The Club continues to fully support Mr. Irsay but must refrain from commenting further at least until formal charges have been filed. A hearing is tentatively scheduled for next Wednesday, March 26."

The 54-year-old Irsay was arrested Sunday after driving at a slow rate of speed, stopping in the roadway and failing to signal a turn before police stopped him, Lt. Joe Bickel of the Carmel Police Department said in a release.

"During the course of the investigation, Irsay subsequently failed several roadside field sobriety tests," Bickel said.

In an inventory of Irsay's vehicle, "multiple prescription drugs were discovered in pill bottles," police said. "These Schedule IV prescription drugs were not associated with any prescription bottles found in the vehicle."

In 2002, Irsay admitted he had an addiction to pain killers.

"After several years of orthopedic operations and procedures, accompanied by long bouts of chronic pain, I became dependent on prescription pain medications," Irsay said in a 2002 statement. "This summer I sought professional help at a nationally recognized facility located outside Indiana. I have successfully dealt with my dependence and my chronic pain issues."

After his release from jail, Irsay tweeted a thank you message for the support he's received.

The bond for Irsay was set at $22,500, said Deputy Bryant Orem of the Hamilton County Sheriff's Department. Orem said Irsay posted a cash bond.

"According to the bond agreement, Mr. Irsay's initial court appearance is scheduled for Wednesday, March 26, 2014, at 1:15 pm in the Magistrate Court located at the Hamilton County Courthouse," Orem said in a statement.

League spokesman Greg Aiello said in an e-mail to USA TODAY Sports that Irsay, if found guilty, would be subject to league discipline: "The league's Personal Conduct Policy applies to all NFL personnel,'' Aiello said via e-mail Monday.

"We are gathering information at this time regarding last night's incident involving Jim Irsay," read a statement released by the Colts.

"The team will issue additional statements when the facts are sorted and we are aware of the next steps to this process. Many fans have reached out to express their concern and we appreciate their support."

According to the NFL's policies, "(a)ll persons associated with the NFL are required to avoid 'conduct detrimental to the integrity of and public confidence in the National Football League.' This requirement applies to players, coaches, other team employees, owners, game officials, and all others privileged to work in the National Football League."

"Apart from any disciplinary action, persons arrested, charged, or otherwise appearing to have engaged in conduct prohibited under this policy generally will be required to undergo a formal clinical evaluation. Based on the results of that evaluation, the person may be encouraged or required to participate in an education program, counseling, or other treatment deemed appropriate by health professionals."

The NFL commissioner decides specific disciplinary actions, according to leaugue rules.

"Discipline may take the form of fines, suspension, or banishment from the League and may include a probationary period and conditions that must be satisfied prior to or following reinstatement. The specifics of the disciplinary response will be based on the nature of the incident, the actual or threatened risk to the participant and others, any prior or additional misconduct (whether or not criminal charges were filed), and other relevant factors."

"Unless the available facts clearly indicate egregious circumstances, significant bodily harm or risk to third parties, or an immediate and substantial risk to the integrity and reputation of the NFL, a first offense generally will not result in discipline until there has been a disposition of the proceeding."

In 2010, Detroit Lions president Tom Lewand was suspended for 30 days and fined $100,000 after pleading guilty to driving while impaired, which league officials called a violation of the NFL's personal conduct policy. Lewand also performed community service.

Meg Irsay filed to divorce Jim Irsay last November. They had been married 33 years.

The Indianapolis Star obtained a copy of the three-page petition at the Hamilton County courthouse and it said, in part: "There has been an irretrievable breakdown of the marriage of the parties, and the Petitioner requests that the parties' marriage be dissolved."

The Colts were valued at $1.6 billion by Forbes magazine, 11th in the NFL.

The Colts said the divorce would not affect Jim Irsay's 100% ownership of the team.

McLeery also writes for The Indianapolis Star