The tit-for-tat sanctions and travel barring for named individuals between the US and Russia have predictably prompted a sell-off in Russian stocks as nervous investors flee ahead of further restrictions on sectors of the Russian economy.

So far, Bank Rossiya is the only company to be named in the US sanctions list, described by Washington as 'the personal bank for senior officials of the Russian Federation'.

Visa and MasterCard have suspended payment processing services to its clients while Russia's central bank has countered that, if needs be, it will take appropriate measures to protect the interests of Bank Rossiya's depositors and creditors.

Novatek, Russia's largest independent gas producer, part owned by Gennady Timchenko, one of Russia's leading businesmen, today fell by 8 per cent. Gunvor, the fourth-largest oil trader co-founded by Timchenko, is also at the centre of a debate about whether Putin, who is an investor, could commandeer its funds.

The sanctions prompted companies with links to Russia and Ukraine to take hasty action to protect themselves from sanctions particularly regarding their contractual entitlement to suspend their contracts.

Yet despite these dramatic troubles, big investment banks are playing down the impact of a new cold war on the medium-term economy. Hakan Enoksson, head of fixed interest at RBC Wealth Management, told Interactive Investor that the wealth manager's essential view on the economic outlook for European countries had not changed, although the firm has sold out of major Russian corporates such as state-owned energy company Gazprom, which is still at the centre of intense negotiations about the $2 billion (1.2 billion) owed to it by Kiev.

Barclays also issued a report today which identified a hard landing in China as the biggest risk to derail the global recovery, and largely limits its concern about Russia's oil output, coming at a time when key producers in the Middle East and Africa face serious political and security challenges that are imperilling output.

On China, it said: 'Such fears are not entirely unfounded in the medium term, as it will be very difficult for authorities to restructure the economy toward a more sustainable growth model and enact needed market reforms while at the same time maintaining strong growth and avoiding accidents such as the bursting of a property bubble.

'But so far Chinese policymakers have demonstrated a willingness to put aside their medium-term restructuring goals and employ policy tools such as easier credit and infrastructure spending to avoid any sharp slowdown from becoming sustained.

'Indeed, these measures are already being employed, suggesting to us that the next move in Chinese growth is up.'

On Russia, Barclays notes that while there has been no cut-off of Russian energy supplies through the Ukraine pipeline network to date, such a course of action cannot be ruled out if the crisis escalates, and that the crisis will also jeopardize much-needed long-term Western investment in the Russian energy sector. It will also impact the scope of the nuclear capabilities that Iran will be allowed to retain permanently.

Otherwise, the research highlights the benign 'environment of low inflation, modest growth and very supportive monetary policy [which] is likely to persist over the next several months', adding that with few credible alternatives in fixed income, 'it would be tempting for investors to overload their portfolios with stocks'.

Instead the bank recommends a balance between equities and fixed income on the basis that bonds will be an effective hedge to stockmarket correction.

'We have not seen a bona fide correction for nearly two years and investors have become optimistic, lowering the bar for disappointment,' it said.

'More broadly, stockmarkets have been going up in developed markets even as medium-term growth prospects have been falling due to structural factors such as slower growth in working age populations and higher dependency ratios.

'Unusually supportive monetary policy seems to be boosting financial asset prices more than economic growth, providing a reason to maintain strong positions in stocks in the near term, but hardly comforting in the medium term.'

Sarasin & Partners amongst others have suggested that a bigger risk to the global economy is the Japanese/Chinese row and posturing over five small islands in the Pacific Ocean, known as the Senkaku Islands by the Japanese and the Diaoyu Islands by the Chinese.

China has been building a big navy presence around the islands.