Nearly a year ago, Joseph Swedish took over as chief executive of Indianapolis-based WellPoint, replacing Angela Braly.

Being relatively new to the world of insurance, the former medical industry executive spent the first part of the year ¡°exploring and studying the organization.¡±

¡°Leadership transcends industry experience. Wherever you go, remember ¡®to thine own self be true,¡¯ ¡± he said.

Swedish joined WellPoint at a critical moment when the Affordable Care Act took center stage. He says companies in the insurance industry are similar to those of the hospital industry when it comes to the need to market themselves to consumers.

¡°As the health-care marketplace shifts to become more consumer- and retail-focused, we are evolving to better meet those needs. Consumers will need even more information and help navigating the health benefits environment,¡± he said.

Swedish previously was CEO at Trinity Health Corp., a Michigan-based system that consists of 47 hospitals in 10 states. Prior to that, he led Centura Health, a faith-based nonprofit and the largest health-care provider in Colorado. Swedish has also served on board for Coventry Health Care, a Maryland-based insurance company.

Recently, we asked Swedish about his secrets of success:

Question: How do you define leadership?

Answer: Leadership is the ability to establish standards and cultivate a creative climate where people are self-motivated in a participatory environment of mutual respect. In my opinion, a successful leader is someone who inspires others to succeed, while upholding high expectations and remaining focused on results and accountability. He or she has a vision and is able to chart a course to execute on that vision.

Q: What do you know now that you wish you knew 10 years ago?

A: Patience is a virtue. As much as you would like to get things done as expeditiously as possible, sometimes you need to sit back, review all aspects of a situation, and gather the information necessary to make decisions that are in the best interest of the organization.

Q: What will your industry look like in 10 years?

A: I believe we will see more consolidation among health-care delivery systems and amazing advancements in technology that will not only enhance our ability to provide evidence-based, state-of-the-art care but will serve as a foundation of truly delivering personalized, patient-centered health care. Additionally, providers and payers will be working more collaboratively than ever before ¡ª something WellPoint is focusing on now to serve consumers and deliver affordable, quality care.

Q: WellPoint is saying enrollment in the Affordable Care Act is ahead of expectations. What changes can customers expect from your company under the new law?

A: In the changing environment of health care, our focus on our customers remains constant. Our core values ¡ª accountable, caring, easy-to-do business with, innovative and trustworthy ¡ª drive our everyday actions with our customers and business partners. At WellPoint, we are focused on providing health-care products and services that are simple to use and that customers trust and value. Our top priority is placing the member and consumer first and providing them with a convenient, positive experience with robust decision support tools to help them make the health-care decisions that are best for them.

Q: What can you say to consumers who worry that health insurance is becoming unaffordable?

A: Consumers need to take the time to become educated about their choices. Health care is personal, and they need the information that will help them make the best decision for them and their families. Utilize the many tools and resources available to help you compare and select the quality of care, services and price that are right for you.

To recommend someone for this feature, contact Jill Phillips at (317) 444-6246 or email her at jill.phillips@indystar.com. Follow her on Twitter: @JillPhillips05.

Family: He is married to Gene Swedish.

Favorite quote: ¡°The only place success comes before work is in the dictionary.¡±

Proudest moment on the job: Having all 48,000 associates having created our new purpose statement, vision and values that now guides our engagement with our customers, members, providers and the communities in which we serve.