COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., March 16, 2014 ¡ª During the 2008 presidential campaign, Democrats made an issue of the rising cost of health insurance. They won the election and proceeded to make it worse, until now Obamacare is the central political issue of our time.

They promised that you could keep your doctor, that you could keep a plan you liked. They lied.

Health insurance is even less affordable than it was. Access to healthcare is more difficult, and the quality of healthcare is declining. Doctors and hospitals are finding that they cannot continue to operate under the restrictions of the new law.

The radical left has been engaged in a campaign of distraction over ¡°income inequality,¡± their latest plan to transform America from a constitutional republic to a socialist oligarchy. Unfortunately for them, our health and how we obtain healthcare are issues that touch us all.

We all know people who have been harmed by the Obamacare law. They are not theories or hypothetical cases, but real, live people. Here are the stories of just a few.

Her employees were being shuffled onto an Obamacare plan where they would lose their vision and dental coverage. Deductibles would triple from $2100 per year to $6500. Copays would go from $50 to over $200. Premiums were to go up by 20 percent for this far worse coverage.

Then Obama announced you could go back to your old plan. How is this legal, even if the insurance company would take you back?

She called the insurance company back. They said that her company could get the old plan back ¡ª for the 20 percent increase ¡ª but the owner had to act by close of business the next day and get everyone and the company to fill out all new paperwork and reapply since it would be a ¡°new¡± policy.

Her next hurdle is the rule which states that if the employer is not on the same plan, there may be a penalty of $50 per day per employee¡­.or is it $100? The rules are still being written. The employer is currently on her spouse¡¯s plan.

After having the same medical insurance plan through the American Veterinary Medical Association for 31 years for himself and his disabled daughter, he received a cancellation letter in December 2012 stating that they could not find an underwriter due requirements in the Affordable Healthcare Act. His wife still has Blue Cross Blue Shield insurance through the local school district even though she is retired. They were able to get on her policy. The two plans are very similar as the school district has no mandate ¡ª for now.

His state retirement fully covers medical for him and his family until he becomes 65; then Medicare becomes primary and his insurance secondary. In his state, there is a shortage of doctors and they can¡¯t afford to see even long-time patients any more after they become Medicare eligible.

His wife is self-employed and he wonders how a person can be self-employed and pay income tax, 15.3 percent Social Security and Medicare taxes both as employer and employee, pay for medical coverage, and also contribute to some kind of retirement plan. He doesn¡¯t see how small and sole-proprietor businesses make it ¡ª and many don¡¯t.

Another friend¡¯s son turned 26 last year. He is in medical school. When he applied for health insurance he estimated he would make $16,000 a year. His premium is $40 a month. Preventative care is free. He got a good deal because of the Affordable Care Act, but it¡¯s a subsidy. Universities used to provide affordable health insurance policies. Not now.

He is still working for one reason: health insurance. Going through the government is hell, prices are jacked to a level almost no one who works can afford. Even though the company he works for got an exemption this year, he may have to pay the full cost of his coverage next year. He hopes this nightmare ends soon.

His family¡¯s insurance premium has tripled with their new policy; the policy they wanted to keep was canceled. Their deductible is double what it was. Even worse, when his wife sees a doctor now, they say she has no insurance. ¡°We are so sick of this.¡±

That¡¯s just a cross-section of the many stories I have heard. We all have these stories and we must keep them in the forefront of our minds. We¡¯re not the liars here: Harry Reid and Barack Obama are.

This experiment in government control of healthcare is incompatible with American values and beliefs. It will fail, one way or the other. The politicians aren¡¯t going to save either us or the system. The only way to fix the problems that they have made for us is for We the People to stand up as we did in 2009 and 2010 and finish the job.