Asia-Pacific stock markets generally saw modest declines Monday following a late-week pullback in U.S. equities.

Most in the region were down less than 0.3%, though benchmarks in Australia XJO, -1.05% and Singapore rose and continued recent outperformance.

Laggards were Chinese small-caps and Taiwan, with Taiwan Semiconductor 2330, -2.95% falling a further 1.3% after Friday¡¯s 6.3% drop, its worst day in five years. The company¡¯s warning on second-quarter sales pressured global tech stocks at week¡¯s end.

The U.S.¡¯s move, last week, banned American companies from selling products to Chinese telecommunications-equipment giant ZTE 0763, -4.15% , also weighed on tech.

China¡¯s Shenzhen Composite Index 399106, -1.92% , generally made up of smaller and tech-focused firms, ended down 0.8% and the city¡¯s startup-heavy ChiNext Price Index 399006, -1.74% slid 1.7%.

¡°Jitteriness¡± about the tech sector ¡°will stay as the ZTE ban has reminded investors about China¡¯s heavy reliance on external supplies of critical high-tech and core technologies like semiconductors,¡± said Alex Wong, an asset-management director at Ample Capital.

Smartphone-component makers Sunny Optical 2382, -3.97% and AAC Technologies 2018, -3.66% built on Friday¡¯s declines, respectively dropping 6.9% and 1.9% in Hong Kong, with AAC hitting a fresh eight-month low. Chinese computer maker Lenovo 0992, -5.31% fell 0.5% as the stock traded around levels last seen in 2009.

Trading volume in Hong Kong and China ¡°is shrinking as many investors stay on the sidelines¡± ahead of a possible trade breakthrough between the U.S. and China, Ample¡¯s Wong said. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin may visit Beijing to talk trade.

¡°The market had generally underestimated the risk of U.S.-China trade tensions,¡± said Ivan Li, a DBS strategist. He is bearish on equities near-term given lingering trade tensions and renewed gains in U.S. 10-year Treasury yields TMUBMUSD10Y, -2.13% possibly signaling a weak economic outlook.

Such debt was recently at 2.972% in Asia after being at 2.949% late Friday in New York, the highest such level since January 2014.

Shorter-term Treasurys have seen even faster price declines this year, resulting in yield spreads narrowing to levels not seen in a decade. Standard Chartered expects two-year yields to be at the same level as 10-years by the end of 2018; the gap is currently about one-half percentage point.

Eric Robertsen, global head of forex, rates and credit research at Standard Chartered, said the rising 10-year yield comes after ¡°a very-aggressive move higher¡± in commodity prices this month. That has lifted inflation expectations.

But he sees U.S. inflation ultimately rising modestly, capping long-term yields while short-term ones continue to increase as the Federal Reserve keeps raising interest rates. At the same time, ¡°the Fed is very paranoid about deliberately inverting the yield curve.¡±

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.