Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak has assured the public that the country will not give up on the search for the missing Malaysian Airline Flight MH370.

On the 27th day of the search operation for the Malaysian plane, Mr Najib visited the Pearce RAAF base near Perth, which serves as the search hub for the missing plane.

According to BBC News, Mr Najib, during a joint news conference with his Australian counterpart, Prime Minister Tony Abbott, thanked both the Australian government and the search teams for their search efforts. He said that despite the recent tragedy, the cooperation of other forces in search of the plane has ¡°given us all heart.¡±



He said, ¡°The disappearance of MH370 has tested our collective resolve. Faced with so little evidence, and such a Herculean task, investigators from Malaysia, the US, the UK, China, Australia and France have worked without pause to reveal the aircraft's movements.¡±

Eight planes and nine ships were involved in the search on Thursday, covering around 223,000 square kilometers.

The HMS Tireless, a British submarine, is currently in the southern Indian Ocean as it waits to be joined by a Royal Navy ship, the HMS Echo. Australian naval vessel Ocean Shield, on the other hand, is expected to arrive Friday with specialized equipment to detect the black box flight recorder.

The Malaysian government has been recently burdened with criticisms from the families of the passengers aboard the plane, particularly from the relatives of the 153 Chinese passengers of Flight MH370.

Mr Najib said, ¡°I know that until we find the plane, many families cannot start to grieve. I cannot imagine what they must be going through. But I can promise them that we will not give up.¡±



The Australian prime minister, however, said that there is no assurance that the missing airplane will be found, reports CNN.

He told the press: ¡°We cannot be certain of ultimate success in the search for MH370. But we can be certain that we will spare no effort -- that we will not rest -- until we have done everything we humanly can.¡±

Air Chief Marshall Angus Houston, head of the Joint Agency Coordination Center which administers the search, described the present operation as the ¡°most demanding and challenging search and rescue operations, or search and recovery operations.¡±

A police investigation has also cleared the names of the passengers on the plane from probable involvement in sabotage, hijacking and even personal or psychological issues.

Malaysian Police Chief Khalid Abu Bakar said that the investigation included examining and scrutinizing the cargo in the plane as well as the food served during the flight. They have also interviewed more than 170 people.

Malaysian Airline Flight MH370 was carrying 239 people when it disappeared on March 8 as it travelled from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.