On Monday, we reported that mortgage interest rates improved on Citi Mortgage¡¯s (NYSE:C) 15-year home purchase loans and 30-year refinance mortgages. Now, the lender updated its mortgage rates for Tuesday, which revealed that long-term loan packages retained those levels they¡¯ve been carrying since the beginning of the week. As far as today¡¯s home purchase rates are concerned, the 30-year FRM is listed at a rate of 4.375% at this financial institution. Borrowers, who are looking to secure a favorable 15-year home loan, may want to consider Citi Mortgage¡¯s 15-year fixed mortgage, as it starts at 3.375%.

With regards to the latest refinance interest rates, the 30-year fixed mortgage loan is quoted at a rate of 4.375% on Tuesday. The 15-year refinance loan is published at a rate of 3.500%, according to today¡¯s updated data. Check the details below for further details on current mortgage interest rates, as well as information discount points and annual percentage rates.

 Citi Mortgage offers excellent mortgage rates under both its home purchase and refinance programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing loan, may find some ideal mortgage options at this lender.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

Please, bear in mind, that the current mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the bank and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rate calculations were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

U.S. mortgage application activity improved lately, according to the results of the Mortgage Bankers Association¡¯s (MBA) most recent survey. The MBA reported last week that the seasonally adjusted Market Composite Index increased 9.4% in the week ended February 28. The Refinance Index ticked up 10%, while the Purchase Index climbed 9%, in the said period. According to the survey, the share of applicants seeking to refinance their existing loans edged down to 57.7%.

As for national average mortgage rates, Freddie Mac reported last Thursday that the average rate on the 30-year fixed loan dipped to 4.28%. A week earlier this type of loan was carrying 4.37% in interest. With regards to the 15-year fixed loan, the average rate looked more attractive last week at 3.32%, the mortgage-finance company reported in its weekly survey.

For additional details on Citi Mortgage¡¯s home purchase and refinance mortgage interest rates, loan assumptions and borrowing terms and conditions, please head over to the bank¡¯s website.