MARK COLVIN: Malaysia has dispatched a search plane to the site where Chinese satellites photographed three pieces of what may be wreckage of the missing Malaysian airlines jet.

The objects are in waters north-east of Malaysia and south of Vietnam.

That would put the jet closer to its scheduled flight path than to the Malaysian military's mysterious and confusing reports of the plane possibly travelling west towards India.

Today the Chinese premier Li Keqiang publicly urged Malaysia to do more to find the plane - a further sign of Beijing's frustration over the handling of the search operation.

PETER LLOYD: It's now six days since Malaysian flight 370 went missing, en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur.

One hundred and fifty-three of the 239 people onboard were Chinese nationals.

Beijing has dispatched two warships and 50 other vessels to the South China Sea.

Although the Malaysian government did not formally invite them, a delegation of officials and experts from Beijing turned up in Kuala Lumpur to advise the Malaysians.

Now the Chinese are giving that advice in public.

This is the number two Chinese leader, premier Li Keqiang.

LI KEQIANG (translated): The Chinese government has asked relevant parties to enhance coordination, investigate the cause, locate the missing plane as quickly as possible and properly handle all related matters.

PETER LLOYD: All related matters may be a tilt at the public conduct of some Malaysian authorities, who've suggested that the plane was last tracked south of the Thai resort island of Phuket, at the northern entrance to the Malacca Straits.

That's more than an hour west of where it was meant to be flying.

The Wall Street Journal is reporting that the Boeing 777 plane stayed in the air for about four hours past the time it reached its last confirmed location.

In any event the search zone is already vast, about the size of Portugal. It involves militaries and civil authorities of multiple nations including Australia.

Malaysia is in charge. But it's China that seems to be flexing its muscle.

When China's president telephoned Malaysia's prime minister to convey a sense of urgency, a Chinese official in Kuala Lumpur was made available to the media to repeat the message.

"China requests a unified channel on the Malaysian side to timely release authoritative information" said the official.

He ended his remarks by reprimanding Malaysia."The urgent task now is to speed up the search", he said.

In Beijing, the chief of the Civil Aviation Administration of China had more public advice for Kuala Lumpur.

"In my opinion the accident is a very sad thing", he said, "and I trust the Malaysian government will give the Chinese side an explanation".

It could all be seen in the context of a legitimate expression of China's national interest. But China's a country on the up, ambitious to be a regional superpower.

The presumed location of the plane wreck lies around disputed territory in the South China Sea that Beijing claims.

It's probably no coincidence that in this crash, so much manpower and officialdom has been on such public display.

But the families of missing passengers in Beijing would expect nothing less.