Goldman Sachs has a reputation for consistently holding the winning lottery ticket numbers. But it got rid of the ticket that is poised to be one of this year¡¯s biggest payoffs.

In 1999, the Wall Street bank was among the first investors in Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce business, injecting $3.3 million in what was then little more than a scrappy start-up operating out of its founder¡¯s apartment in Hangzhou.

But as Alibaba Group prepares to sell its stock to the public for the first time, in one of the biggest and most eagerly anticipated initial public offerings in years, Goldman Sachs will not be among the investors standing to make mind-bending sums.

It sold all of its stake in Alibaba by early 2004 ¡ª for $22 million, or nearly seven times its original investment. In comparison, some of the early investors who bought out Goldman Sachs¡¯s stake have since made as much as 30 times their original investments as the company¡¯s value has ballooned exponentially.

For venture capitalists who make early calls on risky bets, it is all part of the game: You win some, you (comparatively) lose some. And in its defense, one former Goldman Sachs employee said, the bank still made a profit on its investment. It is also among six banks that are underwriting the I.P.O.

But for Wall Street¡¯s leading deal maker, it is a symbol, nevertheless, of what could have been.

In the years leading to the technology bubble, Goldman Sachs¡¯s private equity arm, the Principal Investment Area, made big bets on technology stocks. From 1995 to 2000, the private equity arm built up a $1 billion global technology portfolio, investing $200 million in 25 Asian technology companies alone, according to news releases and statements by employees at the time.

The private equity unit¡¯s Asia arm, led by Shirley Lin and Xiang-Dong Yang, invested in a range of rising stars like ChinaRen.com, a social media website, which later was acquired by the video hosting company Sohu.com.

In October 1999, Goldman Sachs led Alibaba¡¯s first round of investment, which raised $5 million and included Fidelity Growth Partners Asia, a venture capital arm of the mutual fund Fidelity. The investors in that round secured a 40 percent stake in the company, according to news reports.

One Western executive who has known Jack Ma, Alibaba¡¯s founder, for more than a decade, said: ¡°At that time, Jack¡¯s company was relatively undistinguished. No one would lend him any money or provide capital for the business.¡±

But that soon changed. In January 2000, the Japanese technology group SoftBank and its founder, Masayoshi Son, announced a $20 million investment in Alibaba, as well as a commitment to inject more capital to build local versions of Alibaba outside China.

¡°Alibaba will become the leader in the fast-growing global business-to-business e-market, and this partnership will strengthen Alibaba¡¯s position in the sector,¡± Ms. Lin said in a statement about the investment at the time.

SoftBank and Goldman became the two dominant shareholders in the company. SoftBank, which held on to its stake in Alibaba and invested more money, currently holds a 34 percent stake, according to a filing by the company in May that revealed top shareholders.

When the tech bubble burst, investors around the world began to re-evaluate their positions in technology start-ups. Some of Goldman¡¯s partners in the private equity fund began asking questions about the portfolio of Chinese Internet companies, according to former employees. At first, Goldman Sachs stood by its guns. Ms. Lin was frequently quoted in news reports saying that Goldman Sachs took a long-term view on China.

But by 2003 Goldman¡¯s private equity unit began to lose faith in Chinese start-ups and decided to sell its Alibaba stake. ¡°There was no way of telling that Alibaba would become the success that it has become today,¡± said one person with knowledge of the unit¡¯s thinking, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

¡°A lot of companies like Alibaba spent a lot of time moving sideways,¡± this person added.

Hany Nada, an investor who helped organize the purchase of Goldman Sachs¡¯s stake, said that in 2003 many tech investors thought the world was going to end.

¡°After the tech bubble burst in 2000, everyone was very negative on start-ups and the Internet,¡± said Mr. Nada, a principal founder at the Silicon Valley venture capital firm GGV Capital. At the time, GGV Capital was beginning to build a portfolio that now includes some of China¡¯s biggest Internet companies, among them Alibaba and Tudou, an online video company that was later acquired by Youku.

GGV went on to invest in Alibaba many more times, eventually putting $7.8 million into the company. ¡°We¡¯ve made close to 30 times our original investment,¡± said Mr. Nada, calculating a blended average return of $200 million.

If Goldman Sachs missed out on the grand prize by selling its stake in Alibaba early on, its role as one of six investment banks running the company¡¯s initial public offering is a consolation prize. While the fees that Alibaba pays to the banks are expected to be lower than standard fare for Wall Street, these banks ¡ª Goldman Sachs among them ¡ª will lock in partnerships for the company¡¯s future financing deals.

Goldman did cash in on another lucrative I.P.O. in 1999 ¡ª its own.