NEW YORK (MarketWatch) ¡ª U.S. stocks dropped on Thursday, slapping both the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average with their fifth straight down day, as better-than-expected readings on employment and economic growth boosted bets that a stimulus reduction could come this month.

Atlanta Federal Reserve President Dennis Lockhart said a tapering of the Federal Reserve¡¯s bond-buying program that has supported equities should be ¡°on the table¡± in December.

¡°The combined effect of these three developments has sent U.S. indices and gold into another tailspin, while sparking rallies for [the dollar] and crude oil,¡± said Colin Cieszynski, senior analyst at CMC Markets, in emailed comments. He was referring to the news regarding employment, economic growth and Lockhart¡¯s comments.

The S&P 500 SPX, -1.24% slid 7.78 points, or 0.4%, to close at 1,785.03, while the Dow DJIA, -1.25% dropped 68.26 points, or 0.4%, to finish at 15,821.51. The two indexes last fell for five straight sessions in September.

The Nasdaq Composite COMP, -1.02% shed 4.84 points, or 0.1%, to 4,033.16. The tech-heavy index outperformed the other main indexes on Thursday thanks in part to Apple Inc.¡¯s AAPL, -0.69% 0.5% gain on news that China Mobile Ltd. CHL, -3.11% 0941, -3.87% has signed a deal to offer iPhones on its network.

While an improving economy helps the market over the longer run, encouraging data has been weighing on stocks in recent sessions as traders worry the central bank could act soon to pare back its bond buys. Strategists also have said the market simply has been due for a pullback after a year-to-date gain of 25% for the S&P 500.

The week¡¯s most significant economic report is expected Friday, when the government releases its monthly jobs report. Economists polled by MarketWatch anticipate the U.S. economy added 180,000 jobs in November, but some forecasts may be rising given recent encouraging data.

¡°We¡¯re likely to hear ¡®whisper numbers¡¯ closer to 200,000 today and tomorrow,¡± said Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG, in an emailed note. Read more: What to look for in the U.S. employment report.
 Today¡¯s market-moving news: The Labor Department said the number of new applications for unemployment benefits fell by 23,000 last week to 298,000, better than forecasts for a rise to 325,000. The Commerce Department said the U.S. economy expanded at a 3.6% annual pace in the third quarter, topping expectations for 3.2% growth. Lockhart did not say whether he supported a move to taper at the next Fed meeting on Dec. 17-18, but he said market expectations that the asset-purchase program will be wound down over the coming year were ¡°reasonable.¡±
 Today¡¯s movers & shakers: Shares in General Growth Properties Inc. jumped 2.7% following news late Wednesday that the operator of shopping malls will join the S&P 500. Dollar General Corp. advanced 6.1% following its better-than-expected quarterly profit and raised guidance. Read more in the Movers & Shakers column.
 Other markets: European stocks closed broadly lower after strong U.S. growth data stirred tapering fears and as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi addressed the state of the euro-zone economy. Asian equities finished down, with Australia and Japan among the worst performers. Gold futures fell sharply, while crude oil rose.The dollar saw gains fade.
 The buzz: A recent sharp rise in the so-called fear gauge is likely to be short-lived, so there¡¯s still room for a Santa Claus rally, says a post at The Wall Street Journal¡¯s MoneyBeat blog. A contributor to MarketWatch¡¯s Trading Deck is also sounding bullish, saying the market has significant support because of the tax implications of selling now.

iPhones are for browsing, iPads are for buying

¡°Made in the U.S.A.¡± is a money-making investment idea

What bubble? Corporate profits reach new record as share of GDP

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.