Chiquita Brands International and Fyffes will combine to form ChiquitaFyffes, which will be the world's biggest banana distribution company with $4.6 billion in annual revenue.

The merged company will sell more than 160 million boxes of bananas annually. It will also sell foods such as packaged salads, melons and pineapples.

The newly formed firm "will be able to broaden its geographic footprint and distribution channels to access new market opportunities," Chiquita and Fyffes said in a joint statement.

"The combined company will also be able to provide customers with a more diverse product mix and choice," Chiquita CEO Ed Lonergan said in that statement.

The firms will have an operating presence in more than 70 countries and a workforce of approximately 32,000 people.

Shares of Chiquita jumped $1.16, or 10.7%, to close at $12.00, Monday.

Charlotte-based Chiquita has a large presence in the United States but also sells its products globally. Dublin-based Fyffes has a major presence in Europe, as well as operations in the U.S., Central America, South America and Asia.

The merged firm will be headquartered in Ireland.

It can be challenging to brand a generic product such as fresh fruit, but for decades, Chiquita has used advertising and pop-culture tie-ins to link its company name with bananas.

Its iconic Miss Chiquita, born in 1944, was designed to help teach Americans how to ripen and use bananas, which were at the time an exotic tropical fruit, says the company. At its peak, the Chiquita banana jingle ¡ª which included lyrics such as "you should never put bananas in the refrigerator" ¡ª was played 376 times a day on radio stations across the United States.

In 2013, Chiquita had $2.0 billion in net sales of bananas.

But the company has had troubles as well. In 2001, it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under an agreement to reduce debt by about $700 million.

The stock-for-stock transaction between Chiquita and Fyffes is expected to be complete at the end of the year. Chiquita shareholders will own about 50.7% of ChiquitaFyffes, while Fyffes shareholders would own approximately 49.3% of ChiquitaFyffes.

Chiquita's Lonergan will become chairman of the combined firm. Fyffes Executive Chairman David McCann will be CEO.