NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Gold surged 1.3 percent on Wednesday, hitting a near six-month high as fears of more corporate defaults in China and the geopolitical tug-of-war between Russia, Ukraine and the West boosted bullion¡¯s appeal as an insurance against riskier assets.

China¡¯s first bond default and weak data on exports have stoked concerns about the health of the world¡¯s second-biggest economy, sending London copper prices to their lowest in 44 months. Copper is often put up as collateral for lending.

Fears that China¡¯s economy, the world¡¯s second largest after the United States, is slowing triggered gold buying and dampened demand for riskier assets such as equities.

¡°For these last sessions, we have had a very definitive China-led safe-haven bid,¡± said Frank McGhee, head precious metals dealer at Chicago commodities brokerage Alliance Financial LLC.

¡°Gold benefits from China¡¯s bond default and the industrial metals are getting whacked on the anticipation that China is slowing much quicker than people thought,¡± he said.

Spot gold gained 1.3 percent to $1,367.04 an ounce by 1:59 p.m. EDT (1759 GMT), having reached $1,370.60, the loftiest since September 20.

U.S. COMEX gold futures for April delivery settled up $23.80 at $1,370.50 an ounce.

Trading volume was about 250,000 lots, 65 percent above its 30-day average, preliminary Reuters data showed. Wednesday¡¯s turnover is set to be its highest since January 29.

Tensions between Ukraine and Russia are also weighing on appetite for risk globally on a growing chance of western sanctions over Crimea.

The Group of Seven advanced economies will demand that Russia halt efforts to annex Ukraine¡¯s Crimea region in a statement to be issued on Wednesday.

The market is awaiting the Federal Reserve¡¯s policy meeting on March 18-19. The U.S. central bank is most likely to announce another $10 billion cut to its monthly bond-buying stimulus, even after a series of U.S. economic data showing that growth has been hurt by harsh winter weather.

In a sign of investor confidence in bullion, gold-backed exchange-traded products saw inflows of $500 million in February, a reversal from 13 consecutive months of outflows, according to BlackRock.

In other precious metals, silver gained 2.1 percent to $21.25 an ounce. Platinum was up 0.8 percent at $1,469 an ounce, while palladium rose 0.8 percent to $771.10 an ounce.