Carroll County Republican Delegate Justin Ready reacts to news of this merger. Download This File

WBAL's Steve Fermier talked with Andria Cheng of Marketwatch.com about the sale of Jos. A. Bank. Download This File

Looks like the corporate tug of war between Jos. A. Bank and Men's Wearhouse is over.

The rival company based out of state has apparently been successful in its attempt to acquire the Hampstead clothing company known for its 2 for 1 offers.

The price is reported to be $1.8 billion in cash.

The latest tender offer from Men's Wearhouse was approved unanimously by both boards.

Doug Ewert, President and Chief Executive Officer of Men's Wearhouse, will lead the combined company.

The deal will create the fourth largest men's clothing retailer in the country.

Men's Wearhouse fashions typically appeals to younger buyers while Jos. A. Bank is favored by older, more conservative and often more affluent customers.

And it's yet to be seen how the combined company will approach merchandizing, according to clothing retail analyst Andria Cheng with Marketwatch.com.

The Bank name will survive the merger, but, it's not clear how many stores will be closed in the process, Cheng said.

As for the Bank headquarters in Hampstead, Maryland, no clear decision on that is yet evident.

The combination will have 23,000 employees with 1,700 stores nationwide.

It's expected the Eddie Bauer purchase by Bank will likely be broken off.

Go HERE for more details from MarketWatch.com.

One lawmaker who represents Carroll County in Annapolis calls news of the takeover a "sad occasion."

Republican State Senator Joe Getty told WBAL News that he is "worried that in a competitive industry, the company might close the (Jos. A. Bank) headquarters."

Getty says he has heard from some worried workers at the Hampstead facility, which employs 780 people. It is one of Carroll County's largest employers.

Republican Delegate Justin ready told WBAL News that, "from the corporate perspective it looks like a pretty good deal. They (Jos. A. Bank) got the asking price they wanted for their company."

Ready says he is concerned about the future of the Carroll County headquarters.

Neither Getty nor Ready say they have received any briefing from the company on the deal.