JEFFERSON CITY  Marijuana legalization advocates on Monday took their cause a little bit further than they had before when the House Crime Prevention and Public Safety Committee heard nearly three hours of testimony that focused heavily on what they call the social evils of continued prohibition.

Critics of legalization, from law enforcement and the committee, described what they view as new social evils arising from greater access to the drug, especially to minors attracted by marijuana candy and soft drinks.

The bill's sponsor, state Rep. Chris Kelly, D-Columbia, said his views on marijuana changed during his four years as an associate circuit judge.

"I saw too many young people whose lives were ruined by a small amount of marijuana," Kelly said. "The U.S. and Missouri have spent tens of billions of dollars on enforcement against marijuana, and it would be hard to prove we stopped one person from smoking one marijuana joint."

Jason Grellner, who testified against the bill for the Missouri Narcotics Officers Association, said legalization would increase use rates, especially among minors. In 20 states with legal medical marijuana, he said, teen use rates are the highest in the nation. The sale of cookies, candy and soft drinks laced with marijuana  he said pot ring pops are popular  makes it tempting to children, he said.

"How is a child supposed to know the difference between a marijuana-infused one and one that is not?" Grellner asked.

Last year, Kelly sponsored a bill to decriminalize marijuana and received a hearing on the last day of the session. This year's proposal is full legalization, and the hearing took place before lawmakers took their midsession break.

Columbia attorney Dan Viets, one of the state's most persistent supporters of marijuana legalization, said the state is "seeing the evolution of a new marijuana policy."

Viets is chairman of Show-Me Cannabis and Missouri coordinator for the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML. A Show-Me Cannabis initiative proposal formed the basis for Kelly's bill.

For two mothers, one who drove 240 miles and another who drove 50 to testify, legalization is about saving the lives of their sons. Both boys were born with rare genetic conditions that result in severe seizures.

Brandy Johnson brought her 10-year-old son Tres from Bernie in Stoddard County. For six weeks, she said, Tres has been one of a handful of Missourians legally using cannabidiol, a chemical in marijuana that does not make a person high, to control his seizures. From 120 or more seizures a day, now he has 50 or fewer.

Johnson said she pays $170 per month for the oil from a strain of marijuana bred in Colorado to produce cannabidiol but very little THC, the psychoactive chemical in pot.

"I would move to Colorado if I could afford to," she told the committee. "But I had to drop out of my second semester in nursing at" Southeast Missouri State University. "This isn't a bunch of stoners who want to get high."

Heidi Rayl brought her son Zayne, 4, to the hearing from Versailles.

He is not certified to receive cannabidiol legally. Rep. Mike Colona, D-St. Louis, asked Rayl if legal medical marijuana would give her relief.

A 22.2 milligram supply of cannabidiol oil costs $400, she said. If she could grow marijuana legally, she could grow and process her son's medicine at practically no cost, Johnson said.

"Help us save our son's life," she said.

This article was published in the Tuesday, March 11, 2014 edition of the Columbia Daily Tribune with the headline "Marijuana advocates press case."