SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡ª U.S. stocks enter their sixth year of a bull market this Monday, joining a rare group of multi-year stock surges that can support early retirements, pay off college debt, and make pension funds whole.

Or not. The fifth year of the last bull market ended spectacularly and painfully for investors in October 2007, leaving many so scarred they avoided stocks years into this latest rebound.

The good news: The few cycles that make it past their fifth birthday keep motoring along, churning out as much as a decade of gains. Momentum is your friend: On average, the sixth year has produced 26% growth.

The bad: There's plenty that¡¯s different this time around, starting with the Federal Reserve¡¯s full-throttle bond buys to flatten yields. The S&P 500 already produced an eye-popping 30% gain last year. The economy needs to get back its mojo ¡ª the 3% growth rate that¡¯s been elusive since 2005.

¡°What ended nearly every [bull market] was a recession, so we need continued economic growth,¡± said Jeff Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial.

The almost five-year-old bull market started on March 10, 2009, when the S&P 500 Index SPX, -0.04% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +0.26% both rebounded 6% in one day off their respective multi-year lows reached March 9. At the low, the S&P 500 closed at a bottom of 676.53, a drop of nearly 57% from its October 2007 highs. The Dow closed at 6,547.05. Since then, the S&P 500 has climbed 177% and the Dow has gained 151%.

Concern that days are numbered for the current bull market are not unfounded. A minority of bull markets since 1945 have made it to their sixth birthday.

Including the current bull market, there have been 12 since the end of World War II. Of those, only half of them made it to a fifth birthday, according to Sam Stovall, chief equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ, in a recent note.

After that, the list gets halved again for those making it to a sixth birthday. Those bull markets include the 7-year bull market that ended in August 1956, the 6-year bull market that ended in November 1980, and the nearly 10-year-old bull market that ended in March 2000. Those go-go days of the 1990s bull market, which ended in the Internet bust, fattened nest eggs with an S&P 500 gain of over 400%.

The history is tantalizing, particularly for investors still repairing the damage from the last bear market and a concurrent housing market collapse.

Here¡¯s what this bull market needs to do to make it to its sixth birthday, says Stovall:
 U.S. economic growth needs to ramp up and reach 3% by the end of 2014 supported by gains in auto sales and housing.
 Earnings per share growth needs to increase in the mid-to-high single digits in 2014 coupled with gains in revenue. Stovall expects an 8% advance in EPS with revenue rising 3.7%.
 Congress needs to indicate that it is working toward meaningful tax reform legislation by 2015 to help spur increased capital expenditures and repatriation of foreign earnings.

That last part can be troubling given concerns that stock prices have grown faster than their supporting earnings. Stovall said that while the trailing 12-month P/E is above average since 1947, it¡¯s actually below the average when the consumer price index has been in the 1.5% to 2.5% range.

For the economy, a 3% growth rate for the U.S. isn¡¯t a slam dunk. The U.S. economy hasn¡¯t grown 3% or more in nine years. A recent revision of fourth-quarter GDP figures showed the economy growing at 2.4%, down from a previous figure of 3.2%.

Read: Is the White House¡¯s 3.1% growth forecast still too rosy?

In this aging bull¡¯s favor, it¡¯s still cheap to borrow to buy and build. The yield on the 10-year Treasury US:10_YEAR note is in the 2.7% range ¡ª in contrast to 4.65% at the end of the last bull market in October 2007.

Back in March 2009, P/E ratios for stocks in the S&P 500 had fallen below 11x. Now, they¡¯re back over 17x, where they were at the end of the last bull market in 2007. That means that earnings growth has become even more crucial to cool off those multiples.

Bull markets tend to tap out when trailing 12-month P/E ratios get into 17x to 18x territory, Kleintop said. Earnings can support valuations for now but are not enough to support another big market surge, Kleintop said.

¡°We know what expensive looks like, so we¡¯re pretty shackled to earnings growth,¡± Kleintop said.

That view is pretty consistent with what many strategists were calling for in December: After a big jump in 2013, stocks will likely grow in the mid-to-high single digits in 2014.

Another indication the current bull market will see a sixth birthday is that market breadth is relatively stable, meaning no one sector or handful of stocks is fueling the market.

The biggest drivers of the current bull market have been consumer discretionary stocks, followed up by financials, industrials, and tech stocks.

That¡¯s opposed to the bull market that ended in 2000, where tech stocks were far and away the sole market driver, according to Kleintop. In the current bull market, growth is being driven by cyclical stocks, which are closely linked to the economy. While they may be expensive, consumer discretionary stocks have been more productive than they have ever been, and are therefore deserving of a higher multiple, Kleintop said.

Notable consumer discretionary stocks that have jumped in price by more than 1000% over the past five years include Wyndham Worldwide Corp. US:WYN CBS Corp. CBS, +1.83% Priceline.com Inc. US:PCLN Wynn Resorts Ltd. WYNN, -3.22% Expedia Inc. EXPE, -0.10% Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. CMG, -0.74% and Netflix Inc. NFLX, -4.05% according to FactSet.

In 2013, financial and consumer discretionary earnings led the pack with gains of 16.3% and 11.3%, respectively, according to John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet. That¡¯s compared with the 4.9% increase in the S&P 500 for the year. In addition, consumer discretionary stocks also saw an above-average gain in revenue at 4.8% in 2013.

Outside of GDP growth in the 3% area, the key to economic growth in 2014 will have to come from capital expenditure spending and hiring from corporations, which are sitting on record cash piles. That¡¯s crucial because capital investment accounted for no GDP growth in 2013, according to Kleintop.

Capital expenditure spending may improve in 2014, according to a recent note by Russ Koesterich, BlackRock global chief investment strategist.

Given the lackluster recovery, Koesterich said companies are still conservative given the overindulgences and excess capacity of the past two bull markets. Also, consumer confidence is just beginning to recover with current levels still under the long-term average. As the consumer strength returns to speed, certain industries are likely to benefit.

¡°In terms of specific beneficiaries, we believe spending is likely to be led by financial, telecom and service industries,¡± Koesterich noted. ¡°This suggests that technology companies may be beneficiaries if capital spending begins to accelerate.¡±

More on the bull market¡¯s 5th anniversary:

5 ways to protect your profits as the bull market turns five

Why you¡¯ll be stuck with single-digit stock returns for years

5 years after crisis, Citi is alone in trading below book value

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.