If you¡¯ve been one of the first to get hold of a new 1 coin, could it be worth more than the price of a few bags of crisps or cans of pop?

Unlike the new 5 notes, coins do not feature serial numbers - so you¡¯ll have to dig a little deeper to catch the clues that make them worth more than a quid.

Coin expert Alex Cassidy, from GoCompare¡¯s Coining It In, explained how you can spot a particularly special edition.

Here¡¯s what to look out for ¡ª though as things stand at the moment, you might be disappointed if you¡¯re hoping to make a fortune from coin collectors.

It seems that most of the coins are supposed to be printed with the date 2017 , but a few have ¡®2016¡¯ on them, and this may make them rare and collectible.

¡°These are possibly the rarest and most valuable ones to watch - it¡¯s possible some may slip through the net and into circulation over the next few months,¡± Alex said.

One optimistic seller even listed one of these 2016 coins for sale on eBay for 250.

Sadly for this reporter ¡ª who picked up a bag of five 2016 new pound coins this morning ¡ª the seller didn¡¯t have any takers, and has revised their price to a more modest 20.

More than 200,000 of the brand new coins were sent out to retailers last year for ¡°testing¡±.

They¡¯re marked with the world ¡®trial¡¯ and aren¡¯t actually legal tender ¡ª but they might still be worth something.

¡°These new 1 trial coins are fascinating, especially considering the financial precedent of the 2 trial coins in 1994, which have since become one of the most sought after collectible coins in Britain,¡± explained Alex.

¡°If these new trial coins turn out to be as valuable as 1994¡¯s, then anyone who gets their hands on them now could be sitting on a future goldmine.¡±

They¡¯re currently listed for sale on eBay for as much as 135 ¡ª thought whether this seller will be as unlucky as our bold seller of 2016 coins is unclear.

Unfortunately, these aren¡¯t coins you¡¯ll be able to pick up at the bank.

There is a range of commemorative coins on its way, and these might well be worth something.

The first batch will commemorate the achievements of Jane Austen, Sir Isaac Newton and The Royal Flying Corps, and these could be coins to hold on to.

¡°2017 is expected to be a good year for collectors, with the trend of 50p collectible limited release coins continuing into the new 1 coins,¡± Alex told Mirror Money.

¡°That¡¯s the main thing to look out for in the near future, because the first run of those collectibles will be huge.¡±

Once again, these won¡¯t be standard coins you can pick up at the bank or in a shop, but experts reckon collectible ¡®proof¡¯ coins,- the special pre-production samples - often used for ¡°approval¡± purposes and produced to a much higher standard of finish, could be worth investing in if you see one for sale.

A Chards statement said: ¡°Bear in mind they are producing over 2.2 billion 1 coins this year.

¡°We do not think that the 2017 circulation 1 coin will be a good investment - however, the collector coins such as the silver proof, silver proof piedfort and gold proof will be the ones to invest in.¡±