Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer on Monday said fiscal policy can do more to help the economy ¡ª and even lift interest rates.

¡°While there is disagreement about what the most effective policies would be, some combination of improved public infrastructure, better education, more encouragement for private investment, and more effective regulation all likely have a role to play in promoting faster growth of productivity and living standards,¡± Fischer said in a speech on longer-term challenges to the economy. He didn¡¯t discuss the short-term outlook.

¡°By raising equilibrium interest rates, such policies may also reduce the probability that the economy, and the Federal Reserve, will have to contend more than is necessary with the effective lower bound on interest rates.¡±

Fischer sounded more enthusiastic about the benefit of fiscal stimulus than Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen did last week when she testified in front of Congress. For several years, Fischer said, the Fed has been close to being ¡°the only game in town.¡±

President-elect Donald Trump has suggested combining cutting taxes with increased infrastructure spending. It¡¯s unclear so far whether the Republican-controlled Congress will go along with the latter half of that plan.

Answering questions from Evercore Chairman Roger Altman, Fischer didn¡¯t sound as receptive to the idea of rolling back the Dodd-Frank bank reform law, as also has been proposed by Trump.

¡°You speak to people in the financial sector, it¡¯s as if nothing happened,¡± Fischer said. ¡°But something did happen.¡±

He also played down the impact of a strong U.S. dollar. ¡°It won¡¯t stop us from doing what we should do,¡± he said.

Altman asked about the cacophony of voices at the Fed who discuss policy, and whether that¡¯s better than having mostly one person, like ex-Chairman Alan Greenspan, make pronouncements. Fischer said the proliferation of media provides for the demand for such speeches, and the number of members who want to get attention provides for the supply.