South Carolina's unemployment rate fell to its lowest point since late 2000 in May, reaching a mark the state's economy has rarely seen.

Joblessness fell to 4.1 percent adjusted for seasonal variations, the S.C. Department of Employment and Workforce said Friday. That¡¯s an improvement from 4.3 percent in April.

The unemployment rate hasn't been that low since December 2000, hitting a level achieved only twice in the past 40 years.

The improvement came on the heels of broad-based job gains as the state's economic growth has settled into a relatively moderate pace.

South Carolina added 7,600 jobs last month after adjusting for seasonal hiring patters, making May the best month so far this year. Employer payrolls grew at a 1.6-percent pace over the year, essentially matching the national rate.

That marks a slowdown after a long hiring boom. For nearly four years, South Carolina's job gains outpaced the national average, but economists say the unusually low unemployment rate is bringing sky-high growth back down to the ground.

In 2016, South Carolina was adding about 3,000 jobs a month. So far this year, it¡¯s gaining about 2,000 a month.

The issue doesn¡¯t appear to be a lack of interest in hiring, though. Surveys of employers point to ¡°very, very firm¡± demand for workers, said Rick Kaglic, a Charlotte-based economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.

"For the year as a whole, still, job growth remains relatively tepid," Kaglic said. "It appears that a lot of the available pool of labor has dried up."

The May gains were led by the catch-all professional services category, which added 2,800 jobs; the hospitality industry, which added 2,300; construction, which added 1,800; and trade and transportation, which added 1,100.

Those improvements made May¡¯s jobs report especially robust, but economists caution that there may not be much more room for the unemployment rate to fall.

That¡¯s because the state¡¯s economy is uncertain territory. South Carolina has hit 4.1 percent unemployment on two occasions in the last four decades: Once in September 1997 and again in December 1999.

"We¡¯re getting to a point where we¡¯re stretching it," said College of Charleston economist Frank Hefner. "It is treading new ground in terms of what does this mean."

The Charleston area is emblematic of that trend. Charleston County¡¯s unemployment rate, which is not adjusted for seasonal patterns, fell to 2.9 percent last month. Falling below 3 percent for the first time since 2000.

The tri-county area continued to post better-than-average job gains, expanding at a 2.5-percent pace over the year, but the Lowcountry has lost its position leading the state's growth.

That title now belongs to Myrtle Beach, which has expanded at a 4.8-percent clip over the past year. Spartanburg and Florence also outpaced the Charleston region.