05.00 That's all for the Telegraph's Malaysia live blog for now. Check back to the Malaysia page for all the latest updates.

04.40 Tony Abbott, the Australian Prime Minister, appears to have been damping down expectations as ships speed to what is now believed to be the area where MH370 crashed. With the latest sightings of what may prove to be debris having raised hopes the Boeing 777 will be found soon, Mr Abbott stressed the enormity of the task ahead.

"We should not underestimate the difficulty of this work, it is an extraordinarily remote location," he said. "We are trying to find small bits of wreckage in a vast ocean. While we're throwing everything we have at it, the task goes on."

04.25 In a move to stop black box data being lost, the material could be streamed live. The prospect of using the cloud to manage and store data is being consdered in the wake of two major air crashes in five years, according to a senior member of the National Transportation Safety Board in Washington. The industry and regulators are understood to be discussing the move.

01.26 The latest sightings by the Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) and Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) have been confirmed by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority .

"A RNZAF P3 Orion reported sighting a number of objects white or light in colour and a fishing buoy," the statement said.

"A RAAF P3 Orion relocated the objects detected by the RNZAF Orion and reported it had seen two blue/grey rectangular objects floating in the ocean."

However the authority did add a note of caution, saying the objects could not be verified nor discounted as being related to MH370 until they were relocated and recovered by ships.

01.10 As other ships head towards the search area, reports are emerging of what has been found including white objects, orange rope and a blue bag.

00.10 The first ship has arrived at the new search area. Meanwhile Commander William Marks, who is on USS Blue Ridge, says the environment is far more encouraging, especially given that the focus is now on a region far closer to the Australian coast. "This area is much better," he tells CNN."Instead of spending time in transit, we are getting to the area much more quickly."

23.26 A marker flare is deployed into the Indian Ocean from a Royal New Zealand Air Force plane searching for debris from the missing Malaysian Airlines plane

23.05 There is growing optimism that the wreckage could have been found, Air Vice-Marshal Kevin Short, head of the New Zealand Joint Forces says he is encouraged by the latest sitings. A number of ojbects, mainly white, were seen in the new search area. "Those objects turned out to be rectangular in shape, nothing bigger than 1 metre, some of them down to half a metres in size." Even once they are found, the objects will still have to be retrieved and analysed, he sayd.

22.00 Latest reports suggest that ships could be in the new search area within two hours, as the latest photographs of possible wreckage are analysed closely. CNN reporter on a US search plane says spotters also saw objects floating in the sea. If the latest area does turn out to be the crash site, the search teams do appear to have the weather on their side with conditions far better than in recent days.

21.26 The Americans will be relying on the two fixed wing aircraft it has sent to bolster the search, according to Rear Admiral John Kirby, the Pentagon spokesman. "This will allow us to fly one sortie every day." He said the task will be made easier because the new search is closer to the Australian coast. The prime role of the aircraft is to help map the area ahead of any ships arriving when a sighting of the wreckage is confirmed.

20.29 A not very comforting revelation - Reuters news agency is reporting that the international police agency Interpol has said that Malaysia's immigration department had not checked passengers' passports against its database at all this year prior to the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370.

As a result, two passengers with stolen Austrian and Italian passports were able to board the plane, which vanished over the South China Sea on March 8, Interpol said in a statement.

16.57 The foreign desk here at the Telegraph have been puzzling over this morning's graphic from the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which shows the previous and new search zones in the Indian Ocean.

The arrows to the left appear to show the previous estimated flight path of MH370, while the arrow to the right which leads to the new search zone shows the revised estimate.

But oddly, the colour coding suggests the new flight path is travelling at a slower speed - which would appear to contradict this morning's statement from the Australian authorities that MH370 was in fact travelling faster than originally thought.

Another error in the search process? Or have we missed something? Feel free to share your thoughts in the comment section below, or tweet me @andrewmarszal

16.32 Geopolitical rivalries between some of the countries involved in the search operation may have contributed to its slow progress.

According to a new report from Reuters, some countries have been accused of "dragging their feet" on handing over important details which could potentially compromise their defence data.

For instance, countries such as China, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines are involved in tense territorial disputes over the South China Sea, with resources including oil and gas at stake.

According to one envoy from an unnamed Southeast Asian country: "This is turning into a spy novel."

"There is ... a pressing need for regional security structures to take a few leaps forward," said air Vice Marshal Michael Harwood, a retired RAF pilot and former British defence attache in Washington DC.

The risk, he said, was that the search instead became seen a national "test of manhood" and driver of rivalry. Already, several governments have been openly competing in announcing findings and satellite images...

As mystery deepened over the fate of the Boeing 777 and its 239 passengers and crew, most of them Chinese, it became clear that highly classified military technology might hold the key.

But the investigation became deadlocked over the reluctance of others to share sensitive data, a reticence that appeared to harden as the search area widened.

16.22 The London Times has an exclusive from on board the RNZAF Orion that found debris and a floating blue panel that could be from MH370.

A New Zealand search crew ran into a potential ※debris field§ from flight MH370 today and saw a large blue panel floating on the waves as they arrived in a new search area in the southern Indian Ocean.

The Times was aboard the Royal New Zealand Air Force P-3 Orion which set off from Perth at 8am towards an area identified by experts at Boeing, the makers of the missing aircraft, after they recalculated the plane＊s probable speed.

After covering 1,666km (1,035 miles), the Orion descended to a height of 500ft and the four spotters immediately reported seeing objects through the windows.

※It is my impression that we have entered a debris field,§ the aircraft＊s tactical co-ordinator announced over the radio.

On a clear day with little cloud and with sea conditions calmer than in recent days, the crew was able to pick out up to 14 objects. The largest was a light blue panel about four metres square that was clearly picked up by the three cameras on the belly of the aircraft and relayed to screens inside.

Wing Commander Rob Shearer, who piloted the Orion, described it as ※a bit of a frustrating day§.

He told The Times: ※We＊re looking for that one piece of evidence that ties objects in the water to the event, the potential accident. All we got was a lot of small contacts in the area.§

Wing Commander Shearer agreed that the large blue object picked up by his team did look ※promising§ and that the number of objects pointed to some kind of debris field.

15.05 Here's an unlikely complication to finding the black box of MH370 - according to Dr Alec Duncan from the Centre for Marine Science and Technology at Curtin University, searchers currently trying to pick up the box's underwater locator beacon may be struggling to hear it over the sounds being made by whales.

※They wouldn＊t confuse the signal, but it may make it harder to detect based on the background noise from whales and other sources,§ he said.

14.50 Aviation expert David Gleave has spoken to the Telegraph to help explain how a plane's black box works, how crash investigators find it, and why the data of the crucial moments of the doomed Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 may never be recovered:

14.38 With yet another new area to begin searching, many have taken to Twitter today to despair at the length of time this search operation is taking, and the number of false turns it has taken along the way:

<noframe>Twitter: Kristen Massaro - I can see my apartment building on <a href="http://www.twitter.com/googleearth" target="_blank">@googleearth</a> and they still cant find this damn plane <a href="http://t.co/FLDcsCPp9e" target="_blank">http://t.co/FLDcsCPp9e</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MH370" target="_blank">#MH370</a></noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Oldschoolvalues - <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MH370" target="_blank">#MH370</a> : debris may not be from plane. Seriously?? Another twist, the plane could have run out of fuel faster <a href="http://t.co/t2ngwGO5V0" target="_blank">http://t.co/t2ngwGO5V0</a></noframe>

<noframe>Twitter: Chiq - Nincompoops. RT <a href="http://www.twitter.com/Forbes" target="_blank">@Forbes</a>: The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight made a major shift on Friday <a href="http://t.co/97sDbWhNb0" target="_blank">http://t.co/97sDbWhNb0</a></noframe>

14.18 Although the primary goal of the search at this point is to locate any debris which is provably part of the missing jet, finding the plane's black box could be key to unravelling the mystery of how and why MH370 veered so drastically off course.

One question many have asked is why in 2014 the black box - which records what is happening on board a plane to provide evidence in the event of a crash - doesn't live-stream data to servers on the ground during a flight.

According to this interesting piece by CBC News, the issue is cost, with commercial airlines operating on such tight profit margins that the $5 to $7 per minute it would cost to operate this type of technology would render the flight unprofitable.

There have already been calls for regulations to be tightened following the disappearance of MH370.

13.43 An image of the new debris sighting has emerged, showing a blue rectangular panel floating in the new Indian Ocean search zone:

Debris spotted on Friday in the new MH370s search zone (Sky News)

Five different aircraft spotted the floating objects, according to a new statement from the Australian authorities. Here are more details from the AMSA:

Five aircraft spotted multiple objects of various colours during Friday＊s search for the missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370. Search activities have now concluded. A total of 256,000 square kilometres was searched.

Photographic imagery of the objects was captured and will be assessed overnight.

The objects cannot be verified or discounted as being from MH370 until they are relocated and recovered by ships.

A Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) P3 Orion reported sighting a number of objects white or light in colour and a fishing buoy.

A Royal Australian Air Force P3 Orion relocated the objects detected by the RNZAF Orion and reported it had seen two blue/grey rectangular objects floating in the ocean.

A second RAAF P3 Orion spotted various objects of various colours in a separate part of the search area about 546 kilometres away.

Weather conditions in the area are expected to be reasonable for searching on Saturday.

13.30 The debris spotted floating in the new search zone this morning included objects which were blue and grey, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority. It's not much to go on, but both colours are featured on the exterior of Malaysia Airlines' fleet:

13.16 The Associated Press has filed an interesting update on the sightings of debris by Chinese, Thai and French satellites in the previous, more southerly search zone. It would seem that the Australians have essentially written off those earlier sightings as "sea junk", while Malaysian authorities are insisting that they could still be linked to MH370, and therefore could have drifted the 700-odd miles south.

The possibility that the debris could still be linked to MH370 would of course help to justify having spent an entire week searching in an area now being entirely discounted from the operation...

Several countries have recently announced satellite sightings of debris in the previous search area. In an apparent difference of views, Australian officials have been hesitant to describe the objects as possible plane debris and are focusing instead on the new search area, while Malaysian Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said he believes both the debris sightings and the new search zone should be investigated. Some experts say the objects are most likely sea junk.

Malaysia's Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein (2nd at R) looks on while Malaysian Department Civil Aviation Director General, Azharuddin Abdul Rahman (R) speaks during today's press conference at the Putra World Trade Center (PWTC) in Kuala Lumpur (AFP/GETTY)

13.10 Another tragic piece of aviation news has broken today, with the confirmation of the deaths of all five crew members on board an Indian air force cargo plane during a training mission near to the Gwalior air base in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh.

In a sombre twist, the crew were flying a C-130J Hercules plane - the same model of plane India sent to search for MH370 in the Indian Ocean earlier on in the operation.

It was not immediately clear whether the same plane was involved in both incidents.

12.57 Boeing's precise involvement in the new calculations which have led to the shift in the Indian Ocean search area has not been made clear, and the company is unable to provide details due to rules of the international search operation.

However, it can confirm that it is serving in the capacity of a technical advisor on the US National Transportation Safety Board team, which is positioned in the Malaysia region to offer assistance.

The NTSB is a federal agency which investigates civil aviation accidents in the United States, but which is lending its expertise to the ongoing MH370 search effort.

<noframe>Twitter: Boeing Airplanes - Boeing has joined the US <a href="http://www.twitter.com/NTSB" target="_blank">@NTSB</a> team as a technical advisor. Team positioned in region to offer assistance on MH370. <a href="http://t.co/eAGT1HhsSw" target="_blank">http://t.co/eAGT1HhsSw</a></noframe>

12.51 Our correspondent Jonathan Pearlman was in Kuala Lumpur for this morning's press conference, and has filed the following briefing:

A new finding that MH370 was travelling at high speed has prompted the search zone to be shifted about 700 miles to the north and was followed by the sighting of floating objects believed to be possible debris. The assessment of the plane＊s speed was based on new analysis by Boeing.

But authorities appear to have given up on chasing the debris captured in multiple satellite images, which has guided the search for days and led to a series of shifting zones.

Instead, they will search west of Perth in a 120,000 square mile area that is much calmer and closer to shore, allowing aircrafts to spend more time above the zone. The objects spotted by a New Zealand plane will not be confirmed until ships arrive tomorrow.

12.35 The Telegraph's Andrew Marszal has been looking at the changing search areas in recent days and what has led to the latest shift in focus:

No precise details have been given about why the calculations have changed, beyond that the new analysis was partly based on input from Boeing - perhaps about the plane's capabilities - and that it was based on the plane's range, height, speed and fuel.

However the new search area is 400 miles closer to Perth on the western Australian coast, enabling search planes to spend longer scanning the area at a time. The more northerly latitude also means that the operation moves away from the stormy ※Roaring Forties§ into calmer waters.

Read the full analysis of how and why the geographic search area has changed over the last 20 days.

12.25 British Airways has apologised for their rather unfortunately timed advert inviting travellers to "escape to the Indian Ocean".

The offending commercial greeted commuters at London's Euston station with the phrase "Escape the commute and discover the Indian Ocean" floating in a sea of blue, the camera angled upwards towards the surface of the water.

A spokesperson for British Airways said: "We are very sorry for any offence caused, and the advertising is being withdrawn.

"This campaign was planned some months ago and we recognise that its appearance at this time is inappropriate."

<noframe>Twitter: British Airways - Our Indian Ocean advert contained pre-scheduled content that we recognise is inappropriate at this time. We're sorry for any offence caused.</noframe>

11.15 Objects have been spotted in the revised search zone by a Royal New Zealand Airforce Orion, AMSA has reported. The plane is on its way back to RAAF Pearce in Perth and the maritime agency is awaiting imagery, it said. A ship is being dispatched to confirm the sightings but it is not expected to do so until tomorrow, AMSA added.

<noframe>Twitter: AMSA News - RNZAF Orion spotted objects in <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MH370" target="_blank">#MH370</a> search area, identity to be established. Soon to land @ RAAF Pearce. AMSA awaiting imagery. 1/2</noframe>

10.46 Here's the full statement from Hishammuddin Hussein, the Malaysian transport minister, at today's press briefing in Kuala Lumpur:

MINISTER OF DEFENCE AND ACTING MINISTER OF TRANSPORT

Today, the search for MH370 has been further refined. The international investigation team continue working to narrow the search area, and shed further light on MH370＊s flight path.

We are, as always, grateful for the continuing co-operation of our partners in this difficult and intensive search.

Whilst search operations are on-going, we continue to focus our efforts on caring for the families. In Cabinet this morning, we discussed the importance of continuing to support the relatives of the passengers and crew.

On Monday, the Prime Minister announced that based on new data analysis, Inmarsat and the AAIB had concluded that MH370 flew along the southern corridor, and that its last position was in the middle of the Indian Ocean, west of Perth.

On Tuesday, I confirmed that further study of this data would be undertaken to attempt to determine the final position of the aircraft. The Malaysian investigation team set up an international working group, comprising agencies with expertise in satellite communications and aircraft performance, to take this work forward.

The international working group included representatives from the UK, namely Inmarsat, AAIB, and Rolls Royce; from China, namely the CAAC and AAID; from the US, namely the NTSB, FAA, and Boeing; as well as the relevant Malaysian authorities.

The group has been working to refine the Inmarsat data, and to analyse it 每 together with other information, including radar data and aircraft performance assumptions 每 to narrow the search area.

Information which had already been examined by the investigation was re-examined in light of new evidence drawn from the Inmarsat data analysis.

In addition, international partners 每 who continue to process data in their home countries, as well as in the international working group 每 have further refined existing data. They have also come up with new technical information, for example on aircraft performance.

Yesterday, this process yielded new results, which indicated that MH370 flew at a higher speed than previously thought, which in turn means it used more fuel and could not travel as far. This information was passed to RCC Australia by the NTSB, to help further refine and narrow the search area.

The Australian authorities have indicated that they have shifted the search area approximately 1,100 kilometres to the north east. Because of ocean drift, this new search area could still be consistent with the potential objects identified by various satellite images over the past week.

This work is on-going, and we can expect further refinements. As the Australian authorities indicated this morning, this is standard practice in a search operation. It is a process of continually refining data which in turn further narrows the search area. With each step, we get closer to understanding MH370＊s flight path.

Searches must be conducted on the best information available at the time. In the search for MH370, we have consistently followed the evidence, and acted on credible leads. Our search and rescue efforts have been directed by verified and corroborated information. This latest refinement of the search area is no different.

Last night, Japanese authorities announced they had satellite images which showed a number of floating objects approximately 2,500 kilometres southwest of Perth. Early this morning we received separate satellite imagery from the Thai authorities which also showed potential objects.

These new satellite images join those released by Australia, China, France, and Malaysia, all of which are with RCC Australia. The range of potential objects, and the difficulty in re-identifying them shows just how complex this investigation is. We remain grateful to all our partners for continuing to assist in the search operations.

The new search area, approximately 1,680 kilometres west of Perth, remains in the Australian area of responsibility.

Australia continues to lead the search efforts in this new area, and the Australian Maritime Safety Authority gave a comprehensive operational update earlier today. As more information emerges, they will be issuing frequent operational updates, including on assets deployed.

I would like to echo their statements that the new search area, although more focused than before, remains considerable; and that the search conditions, although easier than before, remain challenging.

For the families of those on board, we pray that further processing of data, and further progress in the search itself, brings us closer to finding MH370.

10.15 60 Minutes Australia has released this preview of its programme this Sunday on the Australian families of MH370 passengers. It shows a family member explaining how they received a text message from Malaysia Airlines informing them of the conclusion there were no survivors. The airline previously denied that it had informed families by SMS, saying this was only "an additional means of communication".

10.07 The Malaysian transport minister is asked about the anger of Chinese families over the investigation. He expresses his sympathies, but there is a hint of frustration at the way the complaints and allegations of relatives in China are dominating the agenda. "I have children, I have brothers, I have family members and I can imagine what they are going through," Mr Hussein says. But he added: "It's not just them that have lost family members... 14 other nations have lost family members and it is important for them not to listen to all speculative information". "We are continuing to engage," he adds.

Searchers are "risking life and limb" to find answers, he stresses, before wrapping up the briefing.

10.00 Mr Hussein is being pressed on the new calculations again. He is being asked whether he believes, even if he cannot reveal the details of how it as been arrived at, that the new lead is more credible than the other sightings. He says: "I treat them all as equally important".

09.58 A reporter is asking about the pilots. Malaysia Airlines CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya says that the pair were rostered on, he does not know if they knew each other before then, he says they could have, there is a large pilot community. "There's thousands of them (pilots)", he notes.

09.55 Officials have been asked by reporters to explain how the new conclusions regarding the plane's speed have been reached - has the plane flown at a different height than previously reported? The answers are unsatisfying - Mr Hussein says that technical experts involved in the investigation will explain their calculations "in due course".

This lack of detail behind the changing calculations is part of the reason families are losing faith in the handling of the search

Mr Hussein is clearly conscious of the criticisms. He is defending official handling of the affair, saying he believes everyone has done they best they can. "History will judge us for that," he adds.

09.47 Officials are stressing the difficulties of searching in the remote areas in question, emphasising that due to the distances from land, planes only have an hour or two to scour the zone before being forced to return.

One advantage of the new area, it has earlier been pointed out, is that it is closer to Australia and will allow the planes a little more time in the search zone.

09.45 Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein is talking about the black box. He says that with the battery dying, the government is seeing if it can bring in other technology apart from the US towed pinger locator to try and track it down.

09.42 Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, Malaysia Airlines CEO, is talking about the families. He says they want to find evidence of the aircraft, to physically locate it. That is why the airline is doing everything it can to find it, he stresses.

09.40 Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, Malaysia Airlines CEO says Boeing are highly involved in trying to find out what happened though they have not yet provided any funding for the search, in answer to a question from a reporter.

09.39 Malaysian officials say there was new analysis done by the Boeing team, who have looked at the records of the aircraft in flight and come up with a speed higher than before.

They are not giving any more detail though as to exactly why the estimate has changed.

09.36 The minister stresses that the new search area, though smaller than before "remains considerable" and that the conditions, though not as harsh as in the southern zone, are still "challenging". He is asking for the families' patience.

The Associated Press describes the new search area of about 319,000 sq km (123,000 sq miles) in the southern Indian Ocean as about the size of Poland.

09.33 Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein is talking in Kuala Lumpur now. He says that such adjustments of the search area are normal and that each "refinement" brings search teams closer to finding MH370.

He also says that the plane flew at a higher speed than previously thought.

09.26 The backlash against Malaysia Airlines continues. Several top online travel agencies in China are now boycotting the airline over its handling of the plane disappearance until it "gets to the bottom of the truth on flight MH370", the South China Morning Post reports.

The airline was always likely to suffer from negative public perceptions as a result of the high profile plane crash but the Chinese boycott reflects not safety concerns but the widespread sense in the country that the company has not been open and honest in its handling of the affair.

One of the travel agents, eLong, wrote on its official Weibo page: ※We will continue the ban indefinitely until the Malaysian government and Malaysia Airlines release every piece of information they have in order to find out the truth about the missing flight as soon as possible."

09.15 The Kuala Lumpur press briefings are expected to begin at 17.30 local time - that's 09.30 in the UK. First, the families are to hear from the Malaysian government, then from Malaysia Airlines.

08.48 As the search area shifts once again, let's remind ourselves of how the hunt has developed since efforts began in the southern Indian Ocean, with the help of this map from AMSA and timeline from AFP:

The areas searched in the southern Indian Ocean

- Australian and US surveillance planes begin combing 600,000 square kilometres (230,000 square miles) of the remote Indian Ocean in the southern search corridor.

- Desperate relatives of the 153 Chinese passengers threaten to go on hunger strike, insisting they are not being given the full truth.

- Malaysia says background checks on almost all passengers and crew have produced no "information of significance".

- With the 26-country search apparently bogged down in coordination problems, Thailand's air force reveals its military radar had picked up what appeared to be flight MH370 just minutes after it was diverted.

- Australia says satellites have spotted two objects, one estimated at 24 metres (79 feet) long, in a remote area of the southern Indian Ocean.

- Four surveillance aircraft are dispatched to the area, as is a Norwegian merchant ship. But in poor weather, they spot nothing.

- Planes spend a second fruitless day searching the remote stretch of the Indian Ocean.

- China releases a new satellite photo of an object floating 120 kilometres from those pictured in the Australian images.

- Along with French satellite data indicating floating objects in the area, sightings of a wooden pallet and other debris raise hopes of a breakthrough.

- China and Australia both announce fresh, separate sightings of objects in the sea, adding to the mounting evidence of debris in the Indian Ocean.

- The US Navy orders a specialised black box locator sent to the area.

- Late in the evening, Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak announces "with deep sadness and regret" that MH370 is presumed to have crashed in the Indian Ocean, citing new analysis of satellite data. In a message to families, the airline states "we have to assume" the plane was lost at sea.

- Gale-force winds and huge waves force a halt to the search operation in the Indian Ocean.

- In Beijing, emotional Chinese relatives scuffle with guards outside Malaysia's Beijing embassy, demanding answers.

- The search resumes, buoyed by a fresh satellite sighting of potential debris by European aerospace giant Airbus.

- A US law firm launches the first legal salvo on behalf of grieving families. Ribbeck Law Chartered International says it is filing lawsuits against Malaysia Airlines and Boeing for millions of dollars per passenger.

- Thunderstorms and high winds ground the search again, but Thailand reports fresh sightings of floating debris. A late report says Japan also spotted debris.

- A Japanese government official says objects spotted by its satellite are "very probably" from the missing plane.

- Australia announces that the search area has shifted 1,100 kilometres northeast after a "credible new lead" from radar data that the plane was flying faster than first thought before it crashed.

- The weather clears, sending ships and aircraft from six countries - Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea and the United States - racing to the new search area.

08.21 Watch the moment Amsa and the Australian Transport Safety Bureau announced that the search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has shifted 680 miles (1,100km) to the northeast of where recovery efforts have been focusing. Australian authorities say that the new information constitutes the "most credible lead".

07.58 Good morning and welcome to today's live coverage of the search for missing Malaysia Airlines plane MH370. Here's a quick recap of where things stand.

The search for wreckage of Flight MH370 has now been moved to an area 685 miles northeast of where planes had been looking, after ※a new, credible lead§ surfaced, Australian authorities said this morning.

"The new information is based on continuing analysis of radar data between the South China Sea and the Strait of Malacca before radar contact was lost,§ the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA) said.

※It indicated that the aircraft was travelling faster than previously estimated, resulting in increased fuel usage and reducing the possible distance the aircraft travelled south into the Indian Ocean.§

The updated advice was provided by the international investigation team in Malaysia with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) determining ※that this is the most credible lead to where debris may be located§.

The new search area is approximately 200,000 square miles and around 1,150 miles west of Perth.

※ATSB advises the potential flight path may be the subject of further refinement as the international investigative team supporting the search continues their analysis,§ AMSA said, adding that Australia was repositioning its satellites to the new area.

But authorities denied their fruitless scouring of the southern Indian Ocean had been a waste of time.

"That＊s actually nothing unusual for search and rescue operations, this actually happens to us all the time,§ AMSA chief John Young said.

※This is the normal business of search and rescue operations, that new information comes to light, refined analysis take you to a different place. I don＊t count the original work a waste of time.§

Earlier, our correspondent Jonathan Pearlman in Kuala Lumpur reported that a group of oceanographers believe they know where the plane crashed and that the cabin is in one piece.

Scientists believe they know where Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 crashed into the ocean and that the cabin sank in one piece.

The research by the University of Western Australia, using meteorological and ocean-current data alongside the British analysis from data ※pings§ recorded by UK firm Inmarsat, has determined the point of impact and the movements of debris in the weeks proceeding the crash.

A fresh satellite sighting of 300 floating objects ranging in size from seven to 49 feet about 1,680 miles from Perth in the southern Indian Ocean was reported by Thailand yesterday, tallying with previous sightings by French and Chinese satellites. Thai satellite images show objects about 120 miles from a debris field of 122 objects captured by a French satellite on Sunday.

Professor Charitha Pattiaratchi, the scientist who oversaw the research, said that a failure to spot buoyant objects that originated inside the plane indicated that the cabin probably remained intact as it sank into the sea. This would improve the chances that the black box survived without significant damage in the depths below the crash site.

※I think the way the plane crashed, a lot of the debris has been kept intact inside the plane,§ said Professor Charitha Pattiaratchi, from the university＊s oceans institute. ※If the plane broke up, we should see a lot more debris floating around. We should have seen smaller bits of lifejacket and seats, things which are going to float.§