If you expect to stay in your home for a relatively short period of time, consider an Adjustable Rate Mortgage (ARM). In the short term, your interest rate and loan payments during the initial fixed interest rate period generally will be lower. However, once your interest rate converts to a variable interest rate after the initial fixed interest rate period, your interest rate may increase and change annually. Consult with a BMO Harris Mortgage Banker for more information.

Prequalification is a quick analysis of how much loan you can afford based on verbal information you provide to us. It will give you a general idea of the price range you can afford. There are no fees for a BMO Harris prequalification. Preapproval is a loan commitment based on verified information prior to finding a home. There are no fees to apply for a BMO Harris preapproval. A completed loan application, however, is necessary to receive a preapproval loan commitment.

It is best to schedule a mortgage consultation with one of our Mortgage Bankers. Find a Mortgage Banker near you or call us at 1-888-482-3781.

It depends on how long you expect to own your home. The lower the interest rate, the lower your principal and interest payment. You must consider the monthly savings versus the extra point(s). Discount and interest points may or may not be tax deductible. Please consult your tax advisor to discuss your individual situation.

No. The interest rate for your mortgage note will be the rate you selected when you signed your Price Protection Election Agreement. Unlike the interest rate, the APR includes certain charges and fees to reflect the total cost of the loan on an annual percentage basis. Please see the following question for information regarding the APR.

Pre-paid interest is an amount you pay at closing which represents the interest that will accrue between the day your loan closes and the last day of that month. For example, if your loan closes on the 20th day of a 30-day month, at closing, you will pay interest owed for the remaining 10 days of that month. Pre-paid interest covers the period between the day of your loan closing and your first mortgage payment. For each day between the closing date and the following 1st of the month, you'll pay daily (per diem) interest.

An extended rate lock option may be a good option when building a new home. Frequently, a new home will not be completed within the standard rate lock period. If this is the case, an extended rate lock may be a smart move for you. BMO Harris provides options offering up to fifteen months of interest rate protection, depending on your product choice.

Convenience. By having a property tax escrow account with BMO Harris, you can budget by spreading the annual cost of property taxes throughout the year, and BMO Harris will make property tax payments on your behalf and you will not have to worry about missed or late payments.

There are several convenient ways to apply for a BMO Harris mortgage. Work with a Mortgage Banker who will explain the entire mortgage process, describe typical costs up-front, help find the right mortgage for your needs and guide you through the application process. Find a Mortgage Banker near you or call us at 1-888-482-3781.