I¡¯d thought my ¡°experience¡± was going to be about making pottery, but it turns out that it also involves sitting in a circle feeling crystals and drinking mezcal. I¡¯m testing out the two-day, 221 Crafting Magic Airbnb Experiences package in Los Angeles, but wondering when we¡¯ll get to the clay.

Day one and Andrea Osojnik, our black-clad twentysomething host here in LA¡¯s Echo Park neighbourhood, tells us we need to be in the right frame of mind to make a pot well (hence the crystal meditation) but the booze element (a clay pot makes mezcal taste more smoky, she says) perhaps makes this less likely.

You¡¯ll be familiar with Airbnb¡¯s instant-booking option, but the company¡¯s big news is that it now offers instant friends, too. Andrea¡¯s hippy pottery offering being just one example. It comes with the promise that you need never be a dorky tourist ever again.

At the company¡¯s launch event in LA in November, (guest speakers included early investor Ashton Kutcher, Gwyneth Paltrow and Eat, Pray Love¡¯s Elizabeth Gilbert) Airbnb¡¯s 35-year-old billionaire CEO, Brian Chesky, made what he called the company¡¯s ¡°biggest announcement to date¡±. As well as renting out your house, you can now rent out your passion to visitors and become, what Chesky terms, a ¡°micro entrepreneur¡±. It isn¡¯t necessary to be an Airbnb host to offer an experience ¨C anyone can send a proposal, which the company will vet and decide on.

Of course, there are already travel websites offering contact and tours with locals, but the fact that the short-term rental behemoth now offers this service means that the idea is going to reach a massive new audience. Airbnb is valued at $30bn and boasts three million host properties in 191 countries, but a growing number of short-term rental regulations in cities around the world are threatening the company¡¯s profits. Experiences is a smart and lucrative new string to its bow (rental hosts pay only 3% of earnings to Airbnb, while experiences hosts must pay 20%).

Experiences are currently available in 12 cities around the world: San Francisco, Los Angeles, Miami, Detroit, London, Paris, Florence, Cape Town, Havana, Seoul, Nairobi and Tokyo, with 50 more promised for next year. Choices range from a tour with Nelson Mandela¡¯s prison guard and cook in Cape Town, to surfing on Venice Beach. Ten per cent of all ¡°Experiences¡± are run by not-for-profit outfits. All will be filmed by Airbnb to look like slick Bacardi adverts.

James Galbraith offers a three-day, 345 London food tour called Craft Food Connoisseur. Day one involves craft beer and pizza in Hackney; day two is a tour of Borough Market to buy ingredients which are then cooked by a chef in a supper club; day three is Sunday lunch in the Duke of Cambridge pub in Islington. All meals are included in the price. The 36-year-old says that, unlike other internet tour companies, the bonus of working with Airbnb is that it has ¡°a great network of people willing to share cool, behind-the-scenes stuff, so you¡¯re always meeting like-minded people¡±. By day, Galbraith runs a business selling Normandy cider and he says his new tour has been great for business.

Back in LA, it¡¯s day two and conversation turns to Donald Trump ¨C an experience I figure I could get for free in any bar. And yet checking out a stranger¡¯s house has its charms. Andrea has some interesting books (Valley of the Dolls, The Alchemist, some Haruki Murakami) and a cool Pierre and Gilles print of Jean Paul Gaultier in the loo.

When I come outside again, the clay spinning has finally begun. We have fun. And yet about half an hour before home time, I detect a sudden ennui in Andrea. It can¡¯t be just that most of our pots are so bad. Maybe the simple fact is that you can¡¯t make instant friends. Or maybe this is what friendship is like. There are always lulls. It¡¯s like travel really. There is going to be a time when your adventure will not look like a Bacardi advert.

In a world where the internet is giving away all our secrets, Airbnb Experiences is the new ¡°behind the scenes¡±. As Andrea says, as she tops up the mezcal: ¡°Not everyone who goes to Paris wants to see the Eiffel Tower.¡±