GameStop price target raised to $16 from $14 at Loop Capital Loop Capital analyst Anthony Chukumba raised his price target on GameStop to $16 and kept his Hold rating. The analyst notes that while the latest worse-than-expected quarter offered no incremental positives fundamentally, his new price target reflects the increasing possibility that the company will be acquired. Chukumba adds that he is "somewhat encouraged" by the management's maintained FY18 guidance. GameStop's demise 'not as imminent as many expect,' says Wedbush Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter reiterated an Outperform rating and $19 price target on GameStop following the company's Q2 results, telling investors in a research note that he expects shares to trade at a compressed EPS multiple until the company can slow the rate of decline in its core video game business. However, Pachter contends that GameStop will benefit from a strong release slate ahead of the holidays, and that while it is likely going to see sales continue to decline for the foreseeable future, its demise is "not as imminent as many expect" as GameStop appears positioned to manage its store footprint to preserve profitability and cash flow. Regarding its strategic alternatives process, Pachter says he believes the company is "too expensive" for many private equity firms, though it is possible that a buyer could grow free cash flow by cutting opex by $100M or so annually. Loop Capital analyst Anthony Chukumba kept his Hold rating and $14 price target on GameStop after its Q2 results, saying revenues were below his expectations and comps decline of 0.5% was worse than his expected flat print. The analyst also points to an operating margin decline of 90bps , adding that sales of software, digital, tech brands, and pre-owned merchandise all fell. Chukumba states that he was particularly concerned with continued sales weakness in new video game software and pre-owned and value products, and speculation around private equity interest may eventually become "moot". Baird analyst Colin Sebastian kept his Outperform rating and $14 price target on GameStop (GME) after its "in-line" Q2 results, where "strong new hardware sales and improving Tech Brands segment profitability" offset the declines in the pre-owned and software segments. The analyst adds that the revenue beat was driven by the ongoing demand for Nintendo (NTDOY) Switch and Xbox One consoles, while noting that the comps decline of -0.5% was better than the expected -3.7% decrease. Walmart, Kroger to see margin pain from 'war of attrition,' says Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley analyst Simeon Gutman said food retail disruption is accelerating as both grocers and consumers head online and he projects that industry EBIT margins, which are "already slim at 3%," could shrink by nearly a third by 2023. He is incrementally more cautious on Kroger (KR) and has "meaningfully" lowered his EBIT and EPS forecasts, stating that while the company and Walmart (WMT) can both take share, "margin pain" is likely in the process of their "war of attrition" in grocery with Amazon (AMZN), each other and a number of additional competitors. Consensus estimates expect stable margins at Kroger and Walmart, which appears challenging to Gutman, he tells investors. The analyst keeps Equal Weight ratings on both traditional retailers and an Overweight rating on Amazon, arguing that it should be able to leverage Prime and its fast-growing high-margin businesses to invest more heavily while still driving higher profitability. Citi analyst Alexis Borden started Hostess Brands (TWNK) with a Neutral rating and $13 price target. The analyst sees a "host of questions" over Hostess' near-to-medium term outlook due to the recent revenue headwinds from lost Walmart (WMT) display space, heightened cost inflation pressures and continued "sluggish" Sweet Baked Goods category growth. As such, Borden is cautious on the shares near-term. Walmart Q3 comps trending above consens, says at Cleveland Research Cleveland Research analyst Scott Bender's checks indicate sales trends remain strong for Walmart's Q3-to-date and appear to be trending above consensus expectations with fairly steady trends in grocery despite tough comps. The analyst is modeling Q3 US comp store sales of up 3.5%-4%, versus consensus of up 2.8%. Amazon should increase focus on autonomous driving, says Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley analyst Brian Nowak makes the case that autonomous driving technology should be where Amazon (AMZN) invests next, stating that Alphabet's (GOOGL) Waymo partnering with Walmart (WMT) and shopping center owner DDR (DDR) to drive shoppers to stores is "just the beginning." He sees the potential for a deeper integration between Google Shopping and Waymo autonomous cars to deliver retailers' in-store or warehouse inventory to consumers, and sees Amazon needing a defense against a stronger potential long-term Waymo retail offering. Nowak also notes that Amazon is already investing in its own delivery network and contends that investing in an autonomous offering is just an extension of this strategy in many ways. Additionally, the analyst sees a small relative upfront investment, the potential for large shipping savings and ways to leverage the value of miles driven. Nowak maintains an Overweight rating and $2,500 price target on Amazon shares. Funko price target raised to $10.50 from $8 at BMO Capital BMO Capital analyst Gerrick Johnson raised his price target on Funko to $10.50 citing its "solid earnings beat and strong sales growth" in Q2. The analyst notes that despite the increased target and the possibility of the multiple on the stock remaining elevated for the rest of the year, the price target is still much lower than than stock price and his rating on Funko remains at Market Perform. Johnson warns that the collectibles market and Funko's core Pop! product lines are closer to the end of their cycle than the beginning, with earnings at risk if its core trends begin to slow. Funko price target raised to $24 from $14 at JPMorgan JPMorgan analyst Christopher Horvers raised his price target for Funko to $24 following last night's Q2 results. The analyst says his confidence in Funk's underlying business strength "remains firm" after the company posted three consecutive beats since the initial public offering. The company now expects net revenues of $620M-$630M, or 15% growth year-over-year, and EBITDA of $100M-$110M, suggesting 20% growth at the midpoint, the analyst points out. He views this outlook as conservative. Jefferies analyst Stephanie Wissink raised her price target for Funko to $20 after attending International Comic Con in San Diego. Funko's booth "was abuzz with daily traffic," Wissink tells investors in a research note. Enthusiasm around Pokemon and Fortnite was clear at the show, the analyst adds. She upped her estimates for the second half of 2018 and keeps a Buy rating on Funko. Funko price target raised to $18 from $13 at Piper Jaffray Piper Jaffray analyst Erinn Murphy raised his price target for Funko to $18 following yesterday's announcement of a Fortnite partnership hitting Holiday 2018 across 10 product styles. This follows last week's announcement of Funko and Pokemon teaming up - starting with exclusive Pop! Pikachu at Target, Murphy tells investors in a research note. Her analysis indicates these properties could lift the company's annualized base EBIT by 5%, equating to 4c in earnings per share. Murphy believes the recent license wins support Funko's "pop culture dominance." She keeps an Overweight rating on the shares. Dollar General price target raised to $118 from $113 at Wells Fargo Wells Fargo analyst Edward Kelly raised his price target for Dollar General (DG) to $118 from $113 ahead of quarterly results. The analyst notes that expectations seem high given the 23% increase in the stock since last quarter's weather-related disappointment. While Kelly expects solid results and raised his estimates accordingly, he cautions investors not get carried away as retailers with high consumable exposure like Dollar General may not see the acceleration produced by Walmart (WMT) and Target (TGT). The analyst reiterates an Outperform rating on Dollar General's shares as the demand backdrop looks supportive of strong results through a massive low-income refund cycle in early 2019. On The Fly: Top five analyst initiations Catch up on today's top five analyst initiations with this list compiled by The Fly: 1. Walmart (WMT) initiated with an Outperform at BMO Capital while Target (TGT) was initiated with a Market Perform. 2. Apache (APA) initiated with an Overweight at Stephens. 3. Supernus (SUPN) initiated with a Buy at Mizuho. 4. Transocean (RIG) initiated with a Buy at BTIG. 5. Noble initiated with a Neutral at BTIG. This list is just a portion of The Fly's analyst coverage. To see The Fly's full Street Research coverage, click here. As reported earlier, BMO Capital analyst Kelly Bania initiated Target with a Market Perform rating and a price target of $88. The analyst cites her expectations of a flat EBIT margin pressured by the "digital fulfillment cost headwinds and wage costs" that may outweigh the company's improvements in its supply chain. Bania adds that Target valuation of 15-16-times forward earnings - slightly above historical average of 14-times - may be pressured as a result relative to its discrount store peers.