Just to let you know, if you buy something featured here, Mashable might earn an affiliate commission.

Thanks to constant upgrades, we're sure you probably have plenty of old phones, computers, controllers, and whatever else in your house collecting dust somewhere. But after all they've done for you, they deserve better. At Walmart, you can still squeeze some worth out of your old gadgets with their Gadget to Gift Cards plan, powered by CExchange. Because who doesn't love getting gift cards?

This service at Walmart isn't necessarily new, but you might not have heard about it until today. (We only just discovered it ourselves.) If you're an accidental hoarder of gadgets of yesteryear or are just looking to get rid of some of your older electronics while making some money, you'll definitely want to check it out for yourself.

As the name suggests, Gadgets for Gift Cards lets you take your old electronics and exchange them for eGift Card value that you can use on Walmart's website. Smartphones, tablets, game consoles, video games, and even smart hubs are all fair game and can be tallied up and traded in for cold, hard e-cash.

Here's how the process works: find your devices on the Gadget to Gift Cards page based on the categories provided. You'll be able to choose by device type, brand, specific model, or whatever specification you might need to narrow down your search (you can even search for gadget with the search bar if you don't find it right away). Once you find it, the site will tell you how much your gadget is potentially worth.

After you find your product, you'll have to answer a few questions about the condition of your device. It will typically ask you questions like whether it's in good shape or if you'll be able to return it with the original box, but questions will vary. The closer to pristine condition it is, the more value you can get out of it, so try to make sure that your device is still in working condition. If you send any devices, be sure to remove memory cards and other accessories, and have them charged too.

The next step is to print out the prepaid shipping label and ship it to CExchange. You're free to add as many items as you like in your appraisal. Once your products are evaluated, you'll receive an instant Walmart eGift Card with the total amount from your appraisal on the card.

Gadgets to Gift Cards isn't the only surprising service that Walmart provides. You can also get your hands on subscription boxes like the Refresh Renew Extend box to make bad hair days a thing of the past or use their Free Grocery Pickup feature and have Walmart do the grocery shopping while you pick them up at a time and place of your choosing.