If Naftogaz cannot get its act together quickly, Ukraine will be at the mercy of Gazprom and Russian-sourced natural gas, whether it buys it directly from the state-owned behemoth or pays a premium for it from Russia's partners in Eastern Europe. Ukraine's flagship enterprise is mired in a political tug of war with George Soros-inspired reformists on one side, and Ukrainian politicians loyal to president Petro Poroshenko on the other. No one is winning.

Meanwhile, Ukrainians are stuck paying the exorbitant electric and heating bills from an austerity-centric Naftogaz. All of this makes for weak support for a government desperate to become the next European Union member.

It's Not Just Russians Driving Them Crazy

It¡¯s been nearly three years since the fall of a pro-Russian government in Kiev when the Euromaidan uprising pushed Ukraine into the loving arms of international financial institutions . Since then, the idea has been to bring Ukraine on par with the likes of Poland, and one day, if all goes according to plan, make it a full-fledged member of the European Union. The one company in Ukraine that is its best example of European reform is Naftogaz.

Americans have no idea what Naftogaz is, but here¡¯s what makes it interesting: It is always in the crosshairs of the Russians; its funded by the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Everyone¡¯s favorite hedge fund villain, George Soros, who has been involved in Eastern Europe for over 25 years and is a major Obama and Clinton donor, has a hand in Naftogaz.

It is unclear exactly how many ¡°hands¡± Soros has in there, but he has advocated for the breaking up of the state-controlled oil and gas giant ever since the Ukrainians revolted (again) and kicked Vladimir Putin¡¯s buddy Viktor Yanukovych out of the presidency during the Euromaidan revolt.

That was in February of 2014. A pro-Western government is in power now, led by confectionery manufacturer, Petro Poroshenko, aka "The Chocalate King". Poroshenko owns Ukraine's Roshen brand of chocolates. Managing that business was a cake walk compared to running Ukraine. He is facing a yeoman¡¯s task at righting the ship. Depending on with whom you speak, he is either holding his own, or is a colossal failure. In reality, he is probably more in the middle.

The measurement of his tenure is Naftogaz. It is Ukraine¡¯s flagship enterprise, like PdVSA in Venezuela, Petrobras in Brazil, or Saudi Aramco in the Kingdom. They whither, their countries whither. They stall, their countries stall. Ukraine's willingness to reform Naftogaz is tantamount to its willingness to play ball with the E.U. on their field.

This is a quote about the company from Soros: ¡°Naftogaz, the gas monopoly, is the main source of corruption and budget deficits in Ukraine.¡±

Roman Storozhev, the President of the Association of Subsoil Users of Ukraine, or UkrNadra, is looking for a bigger stake from the private sector.

"Naftogaz has a monopoly position on the Ukrainian gas market because of the impact on its subsidiaries Ukrtransgaz, Ukrtransnafta, and Ukrgazvydobuvannia ,¡± he says. ¡°Naftogaz does everything. And it doesn¡¯t do it well."

So the idea was to break it up. That was attempted in September. The Ministry of Economy and Trade tried taking over the unit known as Ukrtransgaz, apparently without telling the top executives at Naftogaz. Insiders at the firm said it was the usual battle for state assets coveted by the oligarchs. The government says it was a planned move, and coordinated resistance by the firm and its foreign aid donors led by EBRD took the cabinet by surprise.

Ukrtransgaz was returned to Naftogaz as its management and international bankers cried foul. Privatization isn¡¯t happening.

¡°None of the provisions of the Naftogaz restructuring plans have been fulfilled so far,¡± the company said in a statement in September.

Political powerhouses of opposing allegiances use Naftogaz in the tug of war for power, hoping for the chance to own the assets (or be paid to manage them) once sold. As a result, crony capitalism and corruption remains intact.

Naftogaz is run by a new team of young, English speaking former investment bankers -- Andriy Kobolev, Yuri Vitrenko and Oleg Prokhorenko. Kobolev is its CEO.

They were allegedly propelled to their current positions by Soros, who saw a possibility for successful and urgent reform in Ukraine starting at Naftogaz. Some say that the people running Naftogaz now are those close to ex-Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk. Yats came out of Yulia Timoshenko¡¯s shadow, and is a Chicago School-style free market reformer.

He became famous when the Russians intercepted a phone conversation between a U.S. State Department official in charge of Eurasia, Assistant Secretary for Europe and Eurasia Victoria Nuland, and Geoffrey R. Pyatt, then-U.S. ambassador in Kiev. The call famously (or infamously) revealed Washington¡¯s pick to lead Ukraine post Yanukovych, and it was our guy Yats.

If Yats is behind the scenes, then that makes Naftogaz even more of a political tool. Naftogaz did not return requests for comments on the former Prime Minister¡¯s involvement with the company. He is not a member of any of its boards.

¡°Kobolev is a creature of Yatsenyuk¡¯s political party and now we are seeing some confrontation between him and the pro-Petro Poroshenko parties. This is all going to end exactly as it began,¡± says Valentyn Zemlyansky, head of energy programs at World Economy and International Relations Center, a Ukrainian think tank.

For those who can¡¯t tell the players without a program: Yats resigned in April after he lost support in the government. He was behind the widely unpopular gas tariffs policy that made Naftogaz the richest company in the country. He was replaced by Petro Poroshenko¡¯s prot¨¦g¨¦, 38 year old Volodymyr Groisman.

Groisman has never been regarded as a reformist. But in the Naftogaz story, he is firmly on the side of reform and also wants to bring market competition into Ukraine's oil and gas industry. He has no qualms with destroying the state monopoly either. Any oligarch would be proud to own it. In fact, so would foreigners.

Groisman and Poroshenko want to increase domestic production of gas at lower costs and stop buying expensive gas from Europe and believe that at the very least, breaking up Naftogaz is a step in that direction.

"We issued permits to explore for oil and gas. We want energy independence," Groisman told the Ukrainian edition of FORBES in September.

The Prime Minister has alleged that the World Bank and EBRD made selling Ukrtransgaz impossible. When the Cabinet attempted to start dismantling Naftogaz, top representatives of World Bank, EBRD and new U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch personally arrived to the Cabinet of Ministers to demand cancellation of the planned removal of the subsidiary from Naftogaz's control.

EBRD and the World bank shut down the unbundling of Naftogaz because something in the way it was taken apart didn¡¯t look right to them. There are too many allegiances. Too many oligarchs with ulterior motives, and the subsidiary was going to the government rather than to the market. Typical of a former Soviet nation, no one trusts the motives of the other.

The government has since stepped back from its plans. They see Russia benefiting from the stalemate.

"We see no interest from Western capital," says Zemlyansky.

The original concept of Naftogaz reform was to unbundle it according to the Third Package energy reform provisions of the European Union, separating production and transportation, and converting Naftogaz into a clearing house or a natural gas trader.

Oleksandr Dombrovsky, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian parliament Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety, has said in local press reports that Naftogaz reform is critical for Ukraine¡¯s entry into the E.U.

All is not lost yet. Last month, the government¡¯s new Main Pipelines of Ukraine initiative scored one point for Naftogaz privatization. Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Kistion told the local media on Nov. 9 that this is ¡°the first step to eliminate Naftogaz¡¯s monopoly.¡±

But Ukraine watchers are best to bet that a one step back move is coming yet again. Between a war with Russian-backed separatists, lack of privatization, and a corruption rating worse than Russia, according to Transparency International, Ukraine is basically a no-go zone for American energy companies. Even if some in Ukraine, like Groisman, seem open to it.

EBRD may have made the mistake in lending to Naftogaz, the parent company, instead of the transit subsidiary Urktransgaz. For the Europeans and to hedge fund regime changers like Soros, Naftogaz leadership is a bunch of ¡°young reformers¡± the West can trust. Ukrtransgaz was old school cronyism.

It's now a battle of whits in Kiev for the future of Naftogaz. It seems safe to say that it cannot be reformed if the very same institutions which should promote reforms are the ones demanding the government stop them.

Naftogaz suffers -- and Ukrainians suffer too. To put it in the usual us versus them mentality of the Ukrainian storyline, a stalled Naftogaz is bad for anyone trying to help Ukraine move away from Russia.

The existing austerity program has no growth sidebar to it. One measure of growth would be giving the private sector bigger opportunities in Ukrainian oil and gas. Instead, the political stalemate at Naftogaz has led to the rise in anti-reform sentiment. Reform equals Europe. Ukraine's pro-Euromaidan fan base should keep that one in mind.

Overall increase of gas tariffs is a whopping 590% since 2014. Utility prices in general increased twice since then and will increase again next year apparently.

Kiev-based energy consultancy, the DiXi Group, says the need for foreign capital is vitally necessary for Ukraine to be less dependent on Russian-sourced gas and lower the cost of heating and electricity for residences and businesses. DiXi also blames Ukraine's tax system and regulatory measures that reduce private investment in oil and gas drilling.

When asked about privatizing its upstream driller Ukrgasvydobyvanna, known by the acronym UGV, Naftogaz says it is coming up with a different model altogether: sell 20% to EBRD or the World Bank. It is not clear why that is even on the table because EBRD and the World Bank are not experts in oil and gas.

See: Transcript of Call Between Joe Biden And Petro Poroshenko, Dec. 2016, Cheers Bank Privatization, No Mention of Naftogaz

Off the record oil and gas investors from Ukraine and Europe all say that such a position keeps Ukraine dependent on Russia¡¯s Gazprom ¨C but also secures position of current managers at the top of the monopoly. It begs the question, if they those managers were recommended by pro-privatization Soros, why is Naftogaz privatization still stuck in the doldrums?

There is currently a draft resolution to sell UGV in the Rada, Ukraine¡¯s parliament, but it hasn't been scheduled yet for a vote.

"Without a doubt, if UGV was in private hands it would be much more efficient and there would be no major political questions to resolve anymore,¡± said Ivan Rybak, a member of parliament and ally of Poroshenko.

Meanwhile, as Ukraine hangs on like a loose tooth, production levels at UGV -- which dropped from a Soviet era max of 68 billion cubic meters per year to 14.5 billion cubic meters in 2015 continue to decline at an average rate of 600 million cubic meters of natural gas each year, according to industry figures. In 2016 UGV production forecast further drop from 14.5 billion cubic meters of gas to 14.3 billion. The market anticipates even worse results.

Naftogaz is not expanding. It is not extracting additional riches out of the ground to get Ukraine the energy independence it wants. Ukraine's biggest problem, what led to this entire mess in 2014, is Naftogaz's battle with Gazprom. Yanukovych rejected a European trade deal in favor of a cheaper long term contract for Russian gas. The people revolted, believing the government acted on the requests of a foreign power. But the decision, three years ago now, shows one thing clearly: Naftogaz is the source of nearly all of Ukraine's political pain. It drove a wedge between them and the Russians. It's led to court cases in the Hague. It led to a secession vote in Crimea and annexation of the southeastern peninsula by the Russians, which led to similar anti-Kiev movements in industrial zones like the Donbass where pro-Russia separatists are looking for autonomy. It all starts with Naftogaz.

The government thinks it can increase the volume of Ukrainian gas production to 20 billion cubic meters in three years. In the first 11 months of the year, domestic gas production increased by a mere 1%, according to Ukrtransgaz. How are they going to achieve these goals if Naftogaz remains hostage to political soap operas?

This is not such a happy story for Naftogaz.

For those who like to see Naftogaz split, their hope is that western financial institutions stop protecting Ukrainian politicians who are not committed to actual economic changes, but committed to their own personal gain. The sooner Naftogaz becomes less politicized and gets on track to become a real, modern energy giant there, the better off Ukraine will be. And, perhaps, the European Union ambitions of Ukraine will then be realized.