Here's how users are getting around the block.

The initial Turkish Twitter block appears to be something simple, called a DNS block. DNS, (domain name system) servers aren't something the average internet user would see in action ¡ª until something goes wrong. They're basically switchboard operators, translating the domain name you type into your browser to the IP address for that site. Google provides has its own public DNS servers, and Turkish tweeters have successfully made their way around the DNS blocks by switching over to them. In order to spread the word, people are spray painting graffiti with Google's DNS in highly visible locations.

As Mashable points out, Turkish Twitter users have also had some luck with other reliable global DNS servers, like OpenDNS. This isn't the simplest way to circumvent the ban, but it's a good one. Google has more detailed instructions on how to switch over to a public DNS, here.

Twitter informed Turkish users of this workaround in Turkish and English right after the ban. "you can send Tweets using SMS," the company advised, providing the following instructions for different telecom services: "Avea and Vodafone text START to 2444. Turkcell text START to 2555." This is probably the easiest workaround in use, if all you want to do is send some tweets out into the world. For now, at least: as the Wall Street Journal notes, it would be pretty simple for the Turkish government to ask telecom companies working in the country to block those texts, too.

Although the DNS and SMS methods seem to be the more reliable options right now, virtual private networks, or VPNs, are already familiar to many internet users in Turkey. They allow a private connection to the internet, and are often used by businesses as a way to allow employees to more securely connect into a network from a remote location. Although it often costs money, users with reliable VPNs should be able to access Twitter with few issues. Turkish tweeters could also download Tor, a standard tool for anonymizing internet use. Or, there are always proxy servers from other countries, another common method that sometimes allows access to content blocked in a certain country.

All this could change if Turkey decides to use a more robust block on the site, however. And, the country could end up blocking more ways of sharing information. The Prime Minister has implied that he might expand the social media ban to include other sites like Facebook and YouTube.