It looked like gold-mining stocks finally bottomed out about a year ago.

After prices for the yellow metal peaked in the summer of 2011 at around $1,900 an ounce, they crashed almost 40% to around $1,200 at the start of 2014. Gold miners were brutalized, with the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF GDX, +0.31% plummeting 65% from September 2011 through January of this year.

But in 2014, the sector regained its footing as gold prices firmed. The Gold Miners ETF GDX, +0.31% bounced back about 30% from January to mid-March. It didn¡¯t last: Gold prices crumbled again and now lie at their lowest levels in 4 1/2 years. And gold miners have caved in as a result.

As we approach the end of the year, however, it¡¯s worth wondering if there¡¯s a buying opportunity in gold miners for your long-term portfolio. Here¡¯s what my outlook is for gold, and two mining stocks I think are worth purchasing for certain portfolios:

There are a host of pressures on gold prices and miners. They can be boiled down to the following:

The dollar: The greenback has strengthened to nearly a four-year high, pushing down commodity prices, from gold to crude oil. Since those goods are priced in U.S. dollars, a stronger currency means people can buy more of them for the same dollar amount of money.

Lack of demand: Many investors are reluctant to buy the precious metal after big declines have burned them. That includes not only speculators cashing out of gold ETFs like the SPDR Gold Trust GLD, +0.02% but also central banks. The third-quarter demand report from the World Gold Council shows a sharp year-over-year drop of 21% in bar and coin demand, and a 9% decline in central bank purchases of gold around the world. Electronics, jewelry and industrial demand slumped too.

No demand: Gold is most commonly deployed as an inflation hedge, since the hard asset naturally sees its price rise as other goods rise. However, inflation hasn¡¯t topped a 3% annual rate in the U.S. since 2011. And, more pointedly, the real problem is a risk of deflation in both Europe and Japan that could hold back the global economy.

Given all this, it seems highly unlikely that anything will happen in the next few weeks to break the trend of weaker gold prices. Thus the beating for gold stocks.

However, look beyond the short-term trends, and many believe these situations aren¡¯t sustainable for years to come.

The question, then, is whether there are any miners out there that have all this pain priced in and offer bargain pricing and strong enough operations to weather the storm and provide long-term value.

Not all miners are created equal

While it¡¯s true that precious-metal prices matter a lot to gold-mining companies, those stocks come in all shapes and sizes. So the first order of business is to identify the good miners from the bad.

Personally, I don¡¯t like diversified miners with base-metal operations. In an environment with strong commodity prices, it¡¯s great to have a copper or lead-zinc mine that also produces some gold or silver. But when all commodity prices stink, it¡¯s doubly painful because everything you pull out of the ground isn¡¯t worth what it was before.

The trap is that companies like Freeport-McMoRan FCX, -0.33% and Rio Tinto RIO, +0.10% offer big-time scale and a decent dividend. But with China¡¯s slowing industrial demand and the brutal commodity environment, it¡¯s hard to own them. Particularly after both have faded more than 15% in the past three months.

On the flip side, small and unprofitable gold miners can be mighty risky too. They can be high-fliers but also fast crashers.

The opportunity to me lies in between, with almost pure-play companies focused solely on gold but with moderate scale and profitability.

At the top of my list of miners to watch is Royal Gold RGLD, +0.14% For starters, the stock is actually up over 40% this year. Furthermore, it is soundly profitable and pays a modest 1.3% dividend that is sustainable at less than 65% of projected fiscal 2015 earnings.

The reason for this strength is a unique business model; Royal Gold is not actually a miner, but rather ¡°streams¡± gold from partners that do the mining. Royal Gold RGLD, +0.14% effectively, is a financier, providing an up-front payment for a miner to pay for operations or equipment in exchange for the right to purchase the actual gold that is extracted at the mine for a fixed price. An example is a recent project in Canada where the company entered into an agreement to buy some gold for $435 an ounce over six years.

Think of Royal Gold RGLD, +0.14% as a call option on gold. As long as the company negotiates a good price and prices stay reasonably stable, Royal Gold will do well.

And if gold prices take off? Well, that $435 an ounce will make investors who buy in now feel like they¡¯ve struck gold.

Another stock to watch is Gold Fields Limited GFI, -0.72% It also has made investors money this year, with a 15% gain.

Though Gold Fields Limited GFI, -0.72% posted a handful of quarterly losses over the past few years, the biggest pain in 2013 was big-time write-downs owing to what Gold Fields called ¡°the elimination of marginal mining at a number of its operations as well as a significant reduction of its growth and exploration portfolio.¡±

That is part of a company-wide effort to focus on cash flow and profitability, not simply to take as many ounces of gold out of the ground as possible to hit production targets. As a result, Gold Fields Limited GFI, -0.72% has a much more attractive balance sheet than many of its peers.

Gold Fields Limited GFI, -0.72% recently posted updated guidance that showed yet another reduction in its ¡°all-in¡± mining costs, down to about $1,090 an ounce on the full year from $1,125 previously. That¡¯s not a great margin, given that an ounce of gold costs less than $1,200. GFI, -0.72%

There are a host of other options out there, but those are the two gold miners that interest me most. Please feel free to share your own calls in the comments section below.

Just remember that while there may be potential in gold stocks now that they are at multi-year lows, there is no guarantee they can¡¯t go lower.

Howard Gold recently wrote that ¡°investors who piled into commodities are in for a bruising decade unless they take profits or cut their losses.¡±

Maybe. But for the long-term investor looking for diversification, there may still be a role for gold miners in his portfolio.