Asian Session ¨C Yen gains ahead of Bank of Japan meeting while euro / dollar dips below 1.36

The yen was strong during today¡¯s Asian trading although the exact catalyst was unclear given also the positive risk sentiment (fresh all-time highs were recorded by stocks overnight in Wall Street). Expectations that the Bank of Japan will hold its ground and talk up the economy following its meeting in the coming Friday could have been one reason the yen was bid. Some analysts have had to revise their initial call that the BoJ would inject additional monetary stimulus during this year.

The dollar was down to 102.33 against the yen, while euro / yen fell to 139.03. The euro was also challenged against the dollar, dropping to its lowest since Thursday¡¯s ECB decision at 1.3585. There was some reevaluation of the relative outlooks for monetary policy in the US and the Eurozone following the knee-jerk movements as a result of Thursday¡¯s ECB meeting. The Australian dollar scaled a more than 3-week high at 0.9366 as inflation data out of China left plenty of scope for additional economic stimulus in the world¡¯s second largest economy.

As there was little economic data out, some of the most important news came from the speeches of central bank officials. The St Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard said that the US economy is closer to attaining the Fed¡¯s goals than at any point in the last 5 years. Such a normalization of the economy brings with it the challenge of how to best normalize monetary policy. Bullard was keen to stress however that the labor market hasn¡¯t fully recovered yet and that inflation was low but gradually moving towards its target.

Bullard is seen as a centrist of the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee that sets interest rates; neither leaning towards strict nor loose monetary policy. He generally reflects the middle ground of deliberations within the Fed and his theme that as the economy continues to improve, monetary policy should be normalized, could become the market¡¯s focal point following the end of tapering around October of this year. The Fed is next meeting on June 17/18, when it is expected to taper by an additional 10 billion dollars to bring the monthly QE purchases down to 35 billion.

Looking ahead, it is likely to be another day with a quiet economic calendar as only UK industrial and manufacturing output during April are on tap.