VW distances itself from IPO speculation VW has backed away from recent speculation sparked by its Porsche brand that the group might spin-of ... 

 Read More  VW has backed away from recent speculation sparked by its Porsche brand that the group might spin-of ...

Daimler loses complicated, costly refrigerant battle Daimler's profit warning, its second this year, brought back an old issue many might have forgotten: ... 

 Read More  Daimler's profit warning, its second this year, brought back an old issue many might have forgotten: ...

Why Porsche's CFO calls Germany's digital infrastructure a 'catastrophe' Porsche's CFO and IT boss says that Germany's digital infrastructure "is an absolute catastrophe" th ... 

 Read More  Porsche's CFO and IT boss says that Germany's digital infrastructure "is an absolute catastrophe" th ...

Will Jaguar go EV-only? Under a strategy being considered by company leaders, the British luxury marque would replace its conventional vehicles with battery-electric models over the next five to... ... 

 Read More  Under a strategy being considered by company leaders, the British luxury marque would replace its conventional vehicles with battery-electric models over the next five to... ...

German automakers' opposition to CO2 goal may backfire German-led efforts to water down calls for a 40 percent cut in new-car CO2 emissions by 2030 may hav ... 

 Read More  German-led efforts to water down calls for a 40 percent cut in new-car CO2 emissions by 2030 may hav ...

Daimler should consider Porsche exec as next finance chief Lutz Meschke, Porsche's finance chief has done a remarkable job at the automaker, ensuring double-di ... 

 Read More  Lutz Meschke, Porsche's finance chief has done a remarkable job at the automaker, ensuring double-di ...

How women are tackling the industry's glass ceiling To say that the automotive industry is male-dominated is an understatement. ... 

 Read More  To say that the automotive industry is male-dominated is an understatement. ...

Why China is by far the world's largest market for full-electric cars China is the largest market for EVs in the world after finding the simple formula for success: Combi ... 

 Read More  China is the largest market for EVs in the world after finding the simple formula for success: Combi ...

Why Russia's Rolls rival fails to impress Russia's luxury Aurus brand aspires to rival Bentley and Rolls-Royce, not just in Russia but in Euro ... 

 Read More  Russia's luxury Aurus brand aspires to rival Bentley and Rolls-Royce, not just in Russia but in Euro ...

Riding in ZF's 'flying billboard' ZF Friedrichshafen began making gears for the Zeppelin airships back in 1900. ... 

 Read More  ZF Friedrichshafen began making gears for the Zeppelin airships back in 1900. ...