Last week, a panel of the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., heard oral arguments in King v. Sebelius. King is one of four cases challenging the implementation of ObamaCare's Exchange subsidies, and the penalties they trigger, through federal Exchanges. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act provides those subsidies only "through an Exchange established by the State." Virginia opted not to establish an Exchange, making the subsidies unavailable and exempting an estimated 287,000 residents from penalties under the individual mandate. The Obama administration decided to issue those subsidies in Virginia -- and the 33 other states with federal Exchanges -- anyway, a decision that subjected the King plaintiffs to penalties from which they are statutorily exempt. They filed suit to stop the illegal subsidies that cause their economic injury. Federal district courts have ruled against the plaintiffs in King and a related case; both rulings are on appeal. (Jonathan Adler and I sorta got the ball rolling on these cases. Here's the brief we filed in King.) The three-judge King panel consisted of Judges Roger L. Gregory, Stephanie D. Thacker, and Andre M. Davis, all Democratic appointees. The plaintiffs/appellants were represented by attorney Michael Carvin, and the government/appellees by Assistant Attorney General Stuart Delery. Virginia Solicitor General Stuart Raphael represented the Commonwealth, which reversed its position from supporting the plaintiffs to supporting the federal government. (Virginia recently changed attorneys general.)

I wasn't able to attend this hearing, and have only listened to the audio (about 52 minutes). I understood Davis to be asking most of the questions, followed by Gregory. Each seemed quite skeptical of the plaintiffs' case. (I don't recall Thacker asking any questions.) The plaintiffs in Halbig v. Sebelius, a related case, drew a more receptive panel from the D.C. Circuit.

There wasn't much new in the King hearing. As with the district court judges, Davis' and Gregory's skepticism stemmed from fundamental misunderstandings of both the PPACA and the nature of these cases. Davis asked Carvin questions like, ¡°What on Earth do your clients care about whether the Exchanges are run by the state or the feds??¡± He also summarized, ¡°You want us to adopt an interpretation of this reticulated statute and kick millions of people in five states ¡­ off the insurance rolls, so that the four people you represent here don¡¯t have to pay a few dollars extra for insurance. That¡¯s what this case comes down to.¡±

The answer to Davis' question is so obvious it makes one wonder if he read any of the briefs at all. Under the plain language of the PPACA, if the Exchange is "established by the State," the statute imposes certain economic burdens on the plaintiffs. If Virginia does not establish an Exchange, the PPACA does not impose those burdens. The plaintiffs may or may not care who runs the Exchange per se. But they care -- they are right to care -- about the Obama administration taxing them without congressional authorization. It is the courts' role to stop the executive when it asserts powers it does not possess, like the power to tax the King plaintiffs.

Davis also misstates the question before the court as one of values, not law. Whether the plain meaning of the statute is a good idea or a bad idea is not relevant. It is the court's role to give effect to the clear language of the statute. If the plain meaning of the PPACA was good enough for Congress, then it's good enough for the Fourth Circuit. If Davis is upset that applying the clear language of the statute at this point would take health-insurance subsidies away from millions of Americans, he should blame President Obama for inducing people into the Exchanges with billions of taxpayer dollars that his own law clearly prevented him from spending in the first place.

The one novel aspect of this hearing was the brief filed by Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring (D) and argued by Solicitor General Raphael. They asked the court to rule against the plaintiffs on the theory that Congress did not, as the Supreme Court requires, provide "clear notice" that Exchange subsidies would be available only in state-established Exchanges. As evidence, they cite correspondence between Virginia and federal officials about whether Virginia will establish an Exchange that never mentions that the subsidies will be available only if the state does so.

There are at least two big problems with Virginia's "clear notice" argument.

First, Congress did provide clear notice. Repeatedly. The language prohibiting subsidies outside of state-established Exchanges is as clear as the language prohibiting them to (A) people who purchase insurance outside of an Exchange, (B) households below and above 100-400 percent of the federal poverty level, (C) workers with an offer of adequate coverage from an employer, and (D) individuals not lawfully present in the United States. Those restrictions on eligibility for Exchange subsidies appear in the same part of the statute and in the same manner as the language prohibiting subsidies in federal Exchanges. No one of any political stripe has ever claimed that those restrictions are unclear.

Second, if states did not know that Congress offered Exchange subsidies only through state-established Exchanges, it is because the Obama administration misrepresented the statute. Had the administration adhered to the obvious meaning of the statute, no one would have doubted that Congress gave states clear notice, or that the administration's interpretation of the statute accurately captured Congress' intent.

It remains to be seen what the Fourth Circuit will do, but the questions from the bench did not bode well for the plaintiffs. A ruling is expected from the D.C. Circuit in Halbig at any time. All briefs, news stories, and opinion pieces for King and the related cases can be found here.