Two decades ago, TriMet was considered America¡¯s gold standard for public transportation.

Bus ridership was skyrocketing on Portland¡¯s revolutionary neighborhood grid system. Then-Vice President Al Gore came to town to dedicate the groundbreaking westside expansion of the MAX blue line. Planners were dreaming out loud about a day when buses and trains would arrive every seven minutes.

But Monday¡¯s latest report on national public-transit ridership from American Public Transportation Association demonstrated just how TriMet has fallen from the glory days of the 1990s.

In 2013, more Americans used buses, trains, subways and ferries than any year since 1956, according to the APTA. Meanwhile, overall ridership continued to outpace the nation's population growth, prompting some experts to declare a mass transit renaissance.

Not in Portland. Historic service cuts and repeated fare hikes during the Great Recession contributed to a 3.8 percent dive in TriMet ridership last year.

When the agency jacked up the cost of what was once called a "two-zone fare" by 19 percent in 2012, it predicted zero impact on ridership.

The latest APTA report, however, shows TriMet recorded 98.8 million rides last year, down from 102.7 million in 2012. Bus ridership dropped 2.4 percent. And MAX, which lost its free-rail zone in the central city due to budget cuts the year before, experienced a ridership plummet of 6.1 percent, the national association¡¯s report showed.

Ridership isn¡¯t just a way to generate revenue, it¡¯s often a measure of a community¡¯s vitality, said Jarrett Walker, a Portland-based public-transportation consultant and author of the book ¡°Human Transit.¡±

¡°Ridership is, fundamentally, a measure of relevance,¡± Walker said. ¡°It captures the sense of how broadly (a public transit system) is touching people¡¯s lives; it tends to track with how much people care.¡±

So can TriMet recover? Walker has no doubt.

For one thing, TriMet¡¯s fifth light-rail line, the Portland-to-Milwaukie orange line, is expected to draw new riders when it opens in September 2015.

Before then, however, Oregon¡¯s largest transit agency should see a boost from restoring frequent service -- making good on the old promise of a bus every 15 minutes on its busiest lines during weekdays -- on its busiest routes this month. 



¡°It needs to be marketed properly,¡± Walker said.

TriMet's falling ridership ¡°suggests a strong sensitivity¡± to the way the agency slashed frequent bus service in the depths of the recession, Walker said. Those were possibly the most devastating service cuts ever made by TriMet, he said.

¡°When your arrival times go from 15 minutes to 20 minutes and you're cutting out service,¡± Walker said, ¡°it can really blow out travels times when you have to make transfers.¡±

TriMet blames dragging ridership largely on September 2012¡¯s elimination of ride zones, including downtown¡¯s Free Rail Zone, and repeated increases in ticket prices. The agency said it has seen a significant reduction of short trips and a loss of weekend ridership, due largely to service cuts.

¡°The roughly 3 percent decrease in ridership nearly matched agency projections,¡± said Mary Fetsch, a TriMet spokeswoman.

But, Fetsch said, there are encouraging signs. MAX weekly ridership has been up 1 percent during the winter, while systemwide ridership is up more than 2 percent.

Meanwhile, WES commuter rail in Washington County has experienced double digit growth throughout the past year, with ridership up about 18 percent, Fetsch said.

Still, other U.S. transit agencies buffeted by the economic downturn have clearly been on the road to recovery. The Seattle area, for example, saw big gains in transit ridership, especially on rail, last year. 



Mantill Williams, the APTA¡¯s advocacy director, said about 80 percent of the nation¡¯s transit agencies had to take evasive action with fare increases or service reductions in order to keep running.

So, why is TriMet lagging? Walker and other experts say the answer is complicated.

Some believe the agency's financial stumbles allowed car-sharing service such Car2Go to gain popularity among residents observing low-car lifestyles. Others say the agency's ongoing ¨C and uncertain -- union battle over what is widely considered the nation¡¯s most-generous benefits package for operators has made it more timid about spending money on service. 



Meanwhile, most agencies chose either schedule reductions or higher fares, or a little bit of each solution, Williams said.

TriMet relied heavily on both. In fact, in the fall of 2012, TriMet cut bus service for the fifth time in four hard years and saddled riders with the biggest fare increase in the agency's history.

¡°Of course, Portland isn¡¯t the only place not seeing the uptick¡± in ridership, Williams said, noting that the numbers were also down in Atlanta and Washington, D.C.

Walker, meanwhile, said some longtime TriMet riders probably abandoned the system out of sheer anger, feeling the agency violated its long-standing social contract with the region.

¡°We¡¯re a denser, more transit-dependent place,¡± he said. ¡°To some, it feels like the TriMet budget crisis is a betrayal of the strong promise that TriMet put out in the 1980s. The expectations are so much higher (in Portland) and so much policy is in place to build around transit.¡±

Walker believes TriMet¡¯s public image will recover as it gradually brings back service.

But will it ever be the envy of other transit systems again?

Before that discussion can happen, Walker said, TriMet needs to catch up, once again, with the frequent service that it put into place in 1982. Still, he said, the economic collapse, not TriMet, should be blamed for the current problems.



¡°We¡¯re still better off than most U.S. cities in approximate size,¡± he said. ¡°But we also got a good head start.¡±