Get on our news & bulletins mailing list

EDITOR'S NOTE: Unless otherwise noted, historical items appear courtesy of longtime Nevada reporter Dennis Myers' Poor Denny's Almanac. highlighted in blue are of particular interest to labor. Copyright  2006 Dennis Myers.]]

President Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, declaring all slaves in rebel states should be free as of Jan. 1, 1863. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1883, the Nevada Board of Equalization called officials of the Central Pacific and Virginia and Truckee railroads to appear before it and show cause why their tax assessments should not be increased; in 1894, the Washoe County convention of the People's Party began in Reno, reportedly the largest assemblage in county history (the party was affiliated with Nevada's Silver Party, and People's Party presidential nominee James Weaver carried Nevada in 1892); the Marysville Appeal reported that two conductors in charge of trains that collided in August near Marysville, California, had been blacklisted from railroad employment throughout the nation ; in 1897, there was a Ferris Wheel at S. J. Hodgkinson's drug store in Reno; in 1911, responding to rumors that the old high school in Reno was torn down when it was in excellent condition, school district trustees released a contractor's report listing numerous deficiencies in the structure; in 1916, Republican presidential nominee Charles Evans Hughes attacked President Wilson for trying to overthrow the Mexican government; in 1937, The Hobbit was published; in 1939, Nevada FHA administrator H.H. Scheeline told the Las Vegas Rotary that more than 100 homes had been constructed in the city; in 1939, Governor Edward Carville declared Nevada's diamond jubilee on October 31 a state holiday, closing all state and local government offices, and asked private employers to do the same; Whittlesea Radio Taxi owner Victor Whittlesea called his cabs off the roads after a Reno strike produced picketing in Las Vegas ; in 1953, two gambling licenses were approved for new resorts on the Las Vegas strip  the Casa Blanca and the Sunrise; in 1961, President Kennedy nominated Eva Adams of Nevada to be director of the U.S. Mint; in 1961, Nevada District Judge Richard Waters removed Carson City Assessor Jack Schumacher from office for neglect of duty; in 1965, Lightnin' Hopkins performed at the Matrix on Fillmore Street in San Francisco, with Jefferson Airplane as the opening act; in 1972, commenting on Oregon's efforts to keep people from moving to that state, Nevada Governor Mike O'Callaghan said Nevada might have to do the same; in 1974, Walter Brennan, the only three-time Academy Award winning male actor, died in Oxnard, California.; in 2004, Arthur Miller's last play Finishing the Picture, debuted at Chicago's Goodman Theatre with Heather Prete, Matthew Modine, Harris Yulin, Linda Lavin and Stacy Keach in the cast (the play dealt with Miller's experience with Marilyn Monroe during the filming in Nevada of The Misfits, with Prete playing Monroe and Modine playing Miller).

Julius Margolin, who just turned 90, and fellow singer and film producer George Mann, who is somewhat younger, will perform as part of the Declaration of Peace event in downtown Reno on Thursday, Sept. 21. For time and location, see below.

 

 Do not underestimate the portent which Julius Margolin represents.

 

 This nonagenarian is a reminder of both Christmas past and Christmas yet to come. He was born in 1916, the year Woodrow Wilson won re-election by promising to keep the country out of the European war. We entered WWI shortly after the election. Julius grew up during the Roaring Twenties, which presaged a nation now crucified on the thorns of the Reagan Bush.

 

 Julius was a young man when Woody Guthrie and Ernest Hemingway rode the rails of a starving, devolving America as she fell victim of the last glut of greed which ended in 1929.

 

 Julius was there when labor was finally honored with respect in this country under the New Deal of Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

 And now, this tireless artist travels the byways of this land  your land  echoing the alarm of those who have gone before, warning that those who forget history are condemned to repeat it.

There is no time like the present to visit this ghost of Christmas past and harbinger of Christmas yet to come.

Step forward and hear George and Julius in Reno today, then let the word go forth from this time and place that the cycle is coming full circle once again.

Make dust ahead of it or become dust beneath it. The choice is yours.

 

 Be well. Raise hell.

 



Media Advisory  

 September 19, 2006

 Contact: Lisa Stiller (775) 232-2823

 

 What: The Declaration of Peace is a nationwide campaign to establish by September 21, 2006 a concrete and rapid plan for peace in Iraq, including:



If this plan for peace is not created and activated by Congress by September 21, the International Day of Peace, Declaration signers across the U.S. will engage in nonviolent action in Washington, D.C. and in communities throughout the nation.

 

 When: Thursday, September 21, from 4-7 p.m.

 

 Where: Bruce R. Thompson Federal Building, southeast corner of Liberty and S. Virginia in downtown Reno

 

 Who: The Reno Anti-War Coalition and Sierra Interfaith Action for Peace.

 

 For national information, see: http://declarationofpeace.org/

 

 ==

 

 At 9:29 PM +0000 9/18/06, georgemann@att.net wrote:

 

 Julius and I are on our way to Salt Lake City from San Francisco.

We're driving by Reno and wanted to stop in to the labor council to drop info about the new "Hail to the Thieves" CS, which features Billy Bragg, U. Utah Phillips, Anne Feeney, The DC Labor Chorus and many other singers singing against the Bush regime.

From: georgeandjulius@att.net

 To: barbano@frontpage.reno.nv.us,

 Subject: "a Union Man" Film/Concert in Reno, 9/21?

 Date: Tue, 08 Aug 2006 15:55:31

 

 Hello Andrew, Chris, Barbara and Rich:

 

 You will recall I was in touch with you last fall about this film... Julius is turning 90 and we are going to be on the road in late September. Hoping you can work together to host this event. We do a two-hour presentation 1 hour film, then a Q & A with Julius and ending with a concert set of folk/labor songs.

 

 Website: http://www.georgeandjulius.com/

 

 Here's a description of the film:

 

 Julius Margolin, at 90, is a living legend in the New York City labor movement. He's been active since the 1930s in the CIO, National Maritime Union and Local 52 of the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees, which he has represented in the Central Labor Council for 32 years. A tireless fighter for justice, equality, and against war, Julius embarked on a new career in 1999, making music and CDs with George Mann while still hitting picket lines and organizing workers in New York City and around the United States.

A Union Man: The Life and Work of Julius Margolin is the story of his life through his eyes as well as those he's met along the way. Featuring guest appearances by Utah Phillips, Faith Petric and former NMU Vice President Joe Stack, as well as concert performances, it's an affectionate portrait of a rank-and-file activist still fighting for justice as he approaches 90.

This will be an event full of labor and social history as well as songs from the last 100 years.





 

 Andrew Furuseth Opposes Idea Of Resolution but It Is Passed, Anyway

 

 BALTIMORE, Md., Nov. 22.  Delegates to the convention of the American Federation of Labor this morning engaged in a warm debate over a resolution which protested against the teaching of militarism in the public schools.

 

 The preamble set forth that "the secretary of war has communicated with public school authorities in various parts of this country in inquiring if they are willing to introduce military training of the boys in the schools and stating that the war department would provide instructors and rifles and ammunition."



The committee to which the resolution was referred recommended nonconcurrence on the ground that the resolution was "non-contentional" and deemed it of no importance.

 

 Andre Furuseth, chairman of the committee, declared that while he was opposed to any increase in the standing army, it was his belief that "men who will not fight and women who won't be mothers are an abomination in the world." 

 

 The convention adopted the resolution and authorized the appointment of a committee to draw up another resolution touching on phases of militarism not brought out in the first one.

Judge Orson Hyde organized Carson County, Utah, in what is today Genoa, Douglas County, Nevada. [Nevada Magazine calendar]

perintendent of schools Orvis Ring was recovering in Lodi from surgery performed in San Francisco; in 1877, the day after its performance in Reno's opera house, the Tom Thumb troupe left Reno for Virginia City; in 1881, President James A. Garfield died eleven weeks after being shot, the longest period of presidential disability until Woodrow Wilson and Vice-President Chester A. Arthur was sworn in as president; 1911, the Nevada State Journal urged businesspeople to support a locally published city directory in preference to another published by a national firm because the national one was "published outside the state and every cent contributed to it is taken outside the state" [EDITOR'S NOTE: All money taken in by the current version of that paper is wired to the Gannett chain in Rochester, NY, at the close of every business day. MORE...]; in 1927, Charles Lindbergh visited Reno for three and a half hours on a flying national tour sponsored by millionaire Harry Guggenheim; in 1938, in Carson City, John Vallarde was sentenced to 18 months in McNeil's Island federal prison and fined $500 for violating the Mann act by transporting a woman from Utah to Nevada "for immoral purposes"; in 1943, Cass Elliott was born in Baltimore; in 1945, President Truman appointed Harold Burton as an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court and the Senate confirmed Burton the same day without any scrutiny; in 1957, the Eisenhower administration detonated an underground atomic bomb at Area 12 in Nevada, then lied about the worldwide detectability of the test in order to avoid a nuclear test ban treaty, a lie later exposed by journalist I.F. Stone in his legendary I.F. Stone's Weekly; in 1958, an atomic bomb code named Eddy was exploded in Nevada, the last such test before a one-year U.S./Soviet testing moratorium took effect; in 1969, the California Board of Regents adopted a resolution ordering the president of the University of California at Los Angeles to fire instructor Angela Davis for being a communist; in 1992, Adrian Cronauer, the disk jockey who was the model for the movie Good Morning, Vietnam, taped a campaign spot for the Bush campaign, attacking Bill Clinton as a liar; in 2000, the 1914 Fernley/Lassen Railroad Depot on Fernley's Main Street was placed on the Nevada Register of Historic Places.

articles of incorporation were filed in Oregon for a railroad to run from Winnemucca in Nevada to the Columbia River country "via Goose Lake valley, and Sprague river valley to the middle fork of the Willamette; down north of the river to Springville, Lane county; thence on the west side of the river to Portland; thence to the Columbia river."; in 1907, a Reno real estate man threatened to bring to the attention of the county grand jury the conditions in a basement being used as a classroom for the overflow of South Side School students, but school board member M.R. Walker defended its use, saying it was not unhealthy or unsanitary; three days after a coroner's jury found the Giroux mine in Ely had been negligent in protecting the health and safety of its miners, another miner died in the Giroux mine, bring the total fatalities to six in three different incidents ; in 1911, the Reno Evening Gazette reported "Numerous complaints have come to the Gazette that women in this city are being insulted on Reno's streets and that in some instances the men who insult them have been bold enough to grasp the women and walk with them, notwithstanding their protests, and their attempts to get away."; in 1924, actress who was Charlie Chaplin's leading lady in all his early films, testified at the arraignment of Horace Greer, accused of shooting Denver oil man Courtland Dines at a late night Hollywood party attended by Purviance and actress Mabel Normand, a crime that plagued Purviance's public image and damaged her career; plans were being made for a $1,260,000 expansion of the Hawthorne naval ammunition depot ; in 1940, Thomas Wolfe's You Can't Go Home Again was published; in 1948, there was a milk shortage in Reno, leading to rumors that dairy cattle were being butchered because of skyrocketing beef prices; the California Labor Federation raised the spectre of pushing for impeachment of President Eisenhower if he failed to resolve the Little Rock integration crisis quickly ; in 1957, U.S. District Judge Oliver Carter denied San Jose physicist Wallace Hendricks' petition to stop an atomic test in Nevada on grounds that it would poison the air; in 1970, Jimi Hendrix died; in 1978, WKRP in Cincinnati premiered on CBS; in 1986, Crime Story, a television series set in Las Vegas, debuted on NBC, lasting 43 episodes until May 10, 1988 (the last episode ended in a season-ending cliffhanger that was never resolved because the series was cancelled before the next season started).

Union forces hurled back a Confederate invasion of Maryland in the Civil War battle of Antietam. With 23,100 killed, wounded or captured, it remains the bloodiest day in U.S. military history. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

President Ford announced a conditional amnesty program for Vietnam War deserters and draft evaders. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Union construction flagger seriously injured. Laborers' Union Local 169 flagger Tina Smith, a resident of Fernley, is in Washoe Medical Center with broken ribs, a punctured lung and other injuries suffered in a Monday, Sept. 11, accident on Interstate 80 near the California state line (eastbound near mile marker 6, according to the Nevada Highway Patrol). No information has been issued as to whether or not a citation has been issued. According to NHP and other reports, a DHL driver trying to avoid rear-ending a vehicle in front of him slammed on his brakes and swerved into Ms. Smith in the construction zone. She may be released from Washoe Med as soon as today.

four black girls were killed when a bomb went off during Sunday services at a Baptist church in Birmingham, Alabama, in the deadliest act of the civil rights era.

 [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1959, the Soviet space probe Luna 2 became the first man-made object to reach the moon as it crashed onto the lunar surface. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1847, the U.S. executed thirty prisoners of war, members of the St. Patrick's Battalion, a body of Irish, German, and Scottish soldiers  many of them deserters from the U.S.  who fought against the U.S. aggression against Mexico, bringing to 48 the number of the battalion so treated (of 5,000 U.S. deserters in the disreputable war against Mexico, only the San Patricios were executed; ceremonies honoring them are held each year in Mexico and County Galway) ; in 1862, Private Barton Mitchell of the 27th Indiana found three cigars wrapped in Robert E. Lee's special orders 191, which provided Union General George McClellan with information on Lee's plans (the CIA web site calls it "one of the most important pieces of intelligence ever presented to a general in battle") that conceivably made it possible for McClellan to win the war in a single day (he was quoted saying "If I can't whip Bobby Lee with this, I shall gladly go home"), but he dithered indecisively for 18 hours and lost the benefit of the fantastic find, instead ending up in the bloody battle of Antietam (where 23,000 men were killed in a single day) and eventually  on November 7  prompting President Lincoln to finally cashier McClellan; in 1900, University of Nevada Professor N.E. Wilson addressed the California Dairymen's convention in Sacramento on "The Alkali Test for Lactic Acid in Cream"; in 1907, the divorce case of the president of the Mine Owners Association and his wife in Goldfield was generating talk with her saying "Major Stanton has beaten me time and again. I have suffered intolerably since I have been with him. My statement that he threw a lamp at me is absolutely true. I have been told that Major Stanton has been married five times before and I believe it." and him saying "The girl is not 16, but nearer 20. I never had an idea that she was so spiteful  She acted coolly and threw money away. My housekeeper warned me against her."; in 1907, federal officials moved into San Francisco to deal with an outbreak of plague, and the death from the disease of the Chinese Six Companies corporation president spread panic; in Denver, a man was granted a divorce from his wife after he testified she was "politics crazy" (the Reno Evening Gazette later suggested that Nevada divorce lawyers add the grounds to their repertoire) ; in 1921, in New York, Beatrice Andina asked for a legal separation from her husband of 41 years, Peter Andina, because after he started going to motion picture shows, he became too cross to live with; in 1921, movie comedian Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle, one of the screen's most popular performers, was indicted for rape and causing the death of actress Virginia Rappe during a wild party at the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco (Arbuckle was found not guilty but his career was destroyed); in 1939, a man from Westwood, California, married his Santa Cruz girlfriend from his bed in Washoe General Hospital after he arrived in Reno and was hit by a hit and run driver; a photograph was taken from a U.S. bomber at Oswiecim, Poland, showing bombs falling from the plane's bomb bay directly over the crematoria at Auschwitz Birkenau (although they were physically over Auschwitz at the time the photo was snapped, the forward momentum of the bombs actually carried them to a nearby I.G. Farben industrial complex), demonstrating that the U.S. had the ability to shut down Auschwitz by bombing if it chose ; in 1965, Yesterday b/w Act Naturally by the Beatles was released in the U.S. (Capitol 5498, not released as a single in England); in 1967, after a judge approved topless waitresses in New York City, Mayor John Lindsay's administration scrambled to find a way to cover them up again; in 1967, the Del Webb Corporation sold the Thunderbird Hotel in Las Vegas and announced plans to use the money on three other Webb properties  the Sahara and the Mint in Las Vegas and the Sahara Tahoe; in 1972, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced that the next Oscar ceremonies would be a tribute to Charlie Chaplin, including a special Oscar and the return of Chaplin to the United States to accept it (Chaplin had traveled abroad in 1952 and FBI director J. Edgar Hoover arranged to have his reentry permit revoked after he left; Chaplin's first leading lady, from 1918 to 1923, was Edna Purviance of Lovelock, Nevada ); in 1972, the Nevada Supreme Court postponed oral arguments in a court case to determine the ownership of the polluted riverbed of the Carson River; in 2000, after pleading guilty to a technical violation, former U.S. nuclear scientist Wen Ho Lee was set free by federal Judge James Parker with an apology for his persecution by federal investigators.

On this date in 1885, the cornerstone of Morrill Hall, the first building on the new state university campus in Reno, was dedicated {Nevada Magazine calendar}; in 1896, news reports said that Robert Fitzsimmons and James Corbett had agreed for fight for the heavyweight championship (after being rejected by other states, the fight was held in Nevada on March 17, 1897); in 1900, the Virginia Evening Chronicle in Virginia City called for efforts to kill the "unholy scheme"  a state constitutional amendment to make lotteries legal that had already been approved by the 1899 Nevada Legislature and needed to be approved by the 1901 legislative session; in 1908, an Ely mining engineer who was an addicted gambler killed himself by taking potassium of cyanide; in 1939, the Public Works Administration, a Depression era agency that constructed public works around the nation, declined two proposed Las Vegas projects  a $30,500 sidewalk project and a $126,680 street project; in 1949, U.S. Representatives Norris Poulson of California, Fred Marshall of Minnesota, and Wayne Aspinall of Colorado, speaking in Boulder City, called for three more dams on the Colorado River (the Bridge Canyon project, Kanab Creek project and Marble Canyon project); a labor meeting was held on plans to acquire the troubled Biltmore Hotel for a Clark County labor temple ; in 1956, Nevada organized crime figure Joseph "Doc" Stacher was stripped of his U.S. citizenship by a federal court judge in Los Angeles on grounds he had concealed his criminal record when he applied for citizenship in 1930; in 1956, in the first day of testimony of a $1,200,000 libel suit by attorney George Franklin against Las Vegas Sun publisher Hank Greenspun, reporter Ed Reid refused to identify the people he interviewed in writing a story that accused Franklin of blackmail and operating a "baby adoption racket"; in 1959, in an effort to popularize color television, NBC put a new one-hour western called Bonanza on the air, using outdoor Nevada locations to show colorful settings, bringing new tourism life to Virginia City; in 1977, black South Africans were stunned and infuriated by news that their young leader, Steven Biko, had died in police custody; in 2002, in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, a discussion of commercial architecture on York and Street roads brought the worst comparison: "We look like Las Vegas on Street Road."



On this date in 1846, the Donner Party entered Nevada near Pilot Peak. [Nevada Magazine calendar]

On this date in 1874, the Nevada State Agricultural, Mining, and Mechanical Society decided to hold a state fair; in 1908, U.S. Senator George Nixon donated 221 feet of land on Virginia Street to the City of Reno to permit widening of the street at its intersection with Center Street; the Wilson administration shut down the Philadelphia Tageblatt, a newspaper that criticized his decision to go to war, and charged the editors with violation of the Espionage Act ; in 1917, Otto Schoffan, who was being shipped by rail to one of the Wilson administration's internment camps in Utah, escaped by leaping from the train near Las Vegas, Nevada; in 1917, Dallas, Texas, voted for alcohol prohibition; in 1938, a man without a country, John Dolanchuk, left New York on the President Roosevelt, his fourth trip to Europe in hope of finding a nation willing to accept him (with Roumania saying he was a German and Germany saying he was a Roumanian, he had been refused residency by the U.S., England, and France); in 1948, the White House announced that President Truman would visit Reno on September 22d; in 1949, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Wiley Rutledge, Franklin Roosevelt's last appointment to the court and a champion of free expression, died in York, Maine; in 1953, Willie Martello, owner of Searchlight's El Ray Club casino, was stripped of his license for a year by the Nevada Tax Commission for operating a rigged slot machine; in 1955, Carson City trustees were trying to figure out what to do about the Hotel Van Cliff, which had been granted a license for its bar by a previous board of trustees, with City Attorney Cameron Batjer arguing that the license should be revoked until (and if) the hotel was ever actually constructed; in 1974, former U.S. attorney general Ramsey Clark won the Democratic U.S. senate nomination and U.S. Representative Hugh Carey won the Democratic nomination for governor (both opposed by party leaders) in New York; George McGovern presidential campaign manager Gary Hart won the Democratic U.S. senate nomination in Colorado and Michael Dukakis won the Democratic nomination for governor in Massachusetts; in 1974, in the Nevada Assembly district 17 race, a recount confirmed that Democrats Ruby Duncan and Bob Price would appear on the November election as a result of the following tally: Bob Price 194, Ruby Duncan 174, Curly Price 170; in 1976, Columbia Pictures president David Begelman forged actor Cliff Robertson's name on a ten thousand dollar check, which when detected five months later set off a major corporate scandal and the discovery of several other Begelman embezzlements, all of which a majority of the Columbia board of directors tried to cover up; in 2000, The West Wing won a record nine Emmy awards; in 2001, the motion picture remake of The Quiet American starring Brendan Fraser and Michael Caine, based on Graham Greene's legendary 1955 novel about a U.S. agent in Vietnam (reportedly based on Colonel Edward Lansdale), was released into theatres  and pulled from circulation the next day by studio executives who feared it would cause offense in the wake of the September 11 tragedies.

On this date in 1553, Pope Julius III chose Rosh Hashanah to order the confiscation and burning of the Talmud in Rome; in 1776, the Second Continental Congress changed the nation's name from the United Colonies to the United States; in 1879, the Bodie News, in a commentary reprinted in Reno's Journal, criticized Nevada's later governor Lewis Bradley for supporting having the state university in Elko and expressed the hope that Governor John Kinkead would take a different position; in 1913, U.S. Interior Secretary Franklin Lane announced a new plan for Lake Tahoe and the Truckee River under which the federal government would refrain from timber cutting along the river for five years to help restore the watershed, dredge the upper section of the river to provide better flow and would not take any more water from the lake than it receives from natural sources (Lane also collapsed the same day and was under the care of his physician brother); in 1913, former deputy Reno city clerk A.E. Cunningham, convicted of embezzlement in 1911, won parole from his nine year sentence; in 1949, the U.S. Lime Corporation purchased the first parcel of real property from the Basic Magnesium plant built in Henderson by the federal government and acquired after the war by the Colorado River Commission for economic development purposes; in 1954, U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy complained that the senate subcommittee investigating charges against him was invading his privacy in its investigation; it was reported that half of the African- Americans in Georgia who signed a petition calling for school integration had been fired from their jobs and their names circulated through white citizens councils to prevent their being hired elsewhere ; in 1956, Elvis appeared on the Ed Sullivan Show for the first time; in 1957, engineers from the lower Colorado basin (Arizona, Nevada, and California) announced they would meet on September 14 to discuss the proposed Glen Canyon Dam that was being planned for the "benefit" of the upper Colorado basin states; in 1971, the John Lennon album Imagine was released in the United States (on October 8 in England); in 2002, the Las Vegas Sun reported on the emergence of the abandoned and submerged community of St. Thomas from Lake Mead as the level of the lake dropped during a drought.

President Rutherford Hayes (he lost both the popular and electoral vote and was appointed by Congress) visited Reno; in 1880, the Nevada State Journal, reporting that the steamer Nevada had picked up 347 Mormons in Liverpool presumably for shipment to the U.S., asked "How about that letter written by Secretary Evarts [U.S. Secretary of State William Evarts] demanding that this thing be stopped?"; in 1896, the Silver Party, which ruled Nevada in the 1890's and into the 20th Century, began its state convention in Elko and nominated Francis Newlands for the U.S. House of Representatives; members of the United Typothetae of America unanimously adopted a resolution pledging themselves to resist an eight-hour day for members of the International Typographical Union and counseling against use of the union label (paradoxically, the Typothetae began as a printer's union) ; in 1913, Nevada State University agriculture chair C.S. Knight reported signs that Nevada's troubled sugar beet industry was recovering and was headed toward "future growth and permanency" (the industry soon died out); in 1934, United Press reported that local police and federal agents were close to cracking the kidnappings of William Hamm (Hamm's Beer) and banker Edward Bremer and linked those crimes to the March 6, 1934, bank robbery in Sioux Falls committed by the Dillinger gang (the kidnappings were actually the work of the Karpis/Barker gang); in 1932, Patsy Cline was born in Winchester in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia; in 1953, KZTV (now KOLO TV-8 ) in Reno, which would become Nevada's second television station, put a test pattern on the air so residents could start tuning their television sets for the start of operations at the end of the month; in 1974, President Ford granted an unconditional pardon to former President Nixon [New York Times/AP e-headlines]; in 2000, the Bureau of Indian Affairs issued an apology to Native Americans: "Tell your children that the time of shame and fear is over. Tell your young men and women to replace their anger with hope and love for their people. Together, we must wipe the tears of seven generations."

the German air force began its blitz on London during World War II. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

President William B. McKinley was shot and mortally wounded by anarchist Leon Czolgosz at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, N.Y. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Palestinian terrorists attacked the Israeli Olympic team at the summer games in Munich; 11 Israeli athletes and coaches, five terrorists and a police officer were killed. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

El Pueblo Nuestra Senora Reina del los Angeles was founded in California by Spanish settlers; in 1882, Charles D. Gibbs read a paper at the Academy of Sciences in San Francisco on the Carson City prehistoric footprints; in 1896, a Storey County jury ruled against the Virginia and Truckee Railroad in its effort to avoid paying its taxes, ordering the railroad to pay nearly $13,000 in back taxes plus penalties plus legal fees; in 1908, author Richard Wright (Native Son, Black Boy) was born near Natchez; in 1908, the boom camp of Rawhide in Mineral County was destroyed by fire; in 1913, Anaho Island National Wildlife Refuge in Pyramid Lake was established; in 1921, Vice-President Calvin Coolidge was standing on a speaking platform in Williamburg in his home state of Massachusetts when the platform collapsed under him; in 1921, a meeting was held at Donner Lake to discuss changing the route of the Reno/Truckee road from Dog Valley pass to along the Truckee River; children from the Nevada orphan's home were taken by train to a Labor Day picnic/celebration at Laughton's hot springs west of Reno, courtesy of the Western Federation of Labor ; in 1946, U.S. Senator Edward Carville of Nevada, who as governor appointed Berkeley Bunker to the U.S. senate (Bunker was later defeated) to fill a vacancy and then later appointed himself to a different vacancy, was defeated by Bunker in the Democratic primary; in 1946, the national Veterans of Foreign Wars commander said that "rowdyism" had made the national convention in Boston "the worst convention in VFW history"; in 1949, Vice-President Alben Barkley spent the day in St. Louis courting the widow Jane Hadley; in 1949, the national convention of the American Legion endorsed the McCarran/Walters Immigration Act sponsored by Nevada's U.S. Senator that made entry into the U.S. relatively easy for white western Europeans and progressively more difficult for eastern Europeans, Asians, and Africans; in 1949, University of Nevada student and former 4-H livestock award winner Carol Lampe, Nevada's first entry in the Miss America contest, left Reno for Atlantic City where her talent was to be a three-minute talk on how to raise a prize steer; in 1951, in the first coast to coast television broadcast, President Truman spoke before a conference in San Francisco carried by 97 stations in 47 cities; in 1953, General William Dean, the highest ranking prisoner of war in Korea, was released after 38 months of captivity; in 1957, the Edsel, which would pioneer new marketing theories but itself fail, went on sale ; in 1957, Arkansas Governor Orval Faubus ordered the National Guard to surround Little Rock's Central High School to protect it from nine African-American students who were expected to begin attending; in 1962, the Beatles recorded Why Do You Do It and Love Me Do while photographer Dezo Hoffman shot carefully framed photographs of them, shooting George Harrison mostly from the right because he had received a black eye in the Pete Best riots (drummer Best's fans were angered when he was ejected from the Beatles and replaced by Ringo Starr); in 1967, Republican presidential candidate George Romney told Detroit television interviewer Lou Gordon that on a trip to Vietnam in 1965 "...I had just the greatest brainwashing that anybody can get when you go over to Vietnam, not only by the generals, but also by the diplomatic corps over there, and they do a very thorough job," a comment that journalists used to crucify Romney, forcing him to withdraw from the GOP race in which he was the principal obstacle to Richard Nixon, leaving Republican voters with no dove candidate (an account of the campaign by British journalists noted that Romney was not the only one brainwashed on Vietnam by U.S. officials  "most Americans had been"); in 1969, a no-fault divorce law was signed into law by California Governor Ronald Reagan.

Geronimo surrendered to General Nelson Miles after Miles promised him that, following a stay in Florida, he would be permitted to return to Arizona, a promise that was never kept; four years before the "great white hope" fight in Reno, African-American Joe Gans triumphed over Oscar "Battling" Nelson in a brutally hot fight (Gans entered the ring carrying an umbrella) in Goldfield [John L. Smith: Goldfield deserves a statue to commemorate the fight the changed the game]; in 1912, most of the remaining Mormon colonists in Sonora, Mexico, fled back to the U.S. when forces led by rebel General Jos¨¦ In¨¦s Salazar marched into the area; in 1939, when the Athenia was attacked and sunk by a German submarine (the U-boat commander, Fritz-Julius Lemp, mistook the passenger ship for an armored cruiser) eight hours after Britain declared war on Germany, Las Vegas figure Harry Trehearne was on board (he survived); in 1946, more than a thousand Jewish illegal immigrants trying to sneak into Palestine were taken off a blockade running ship and sent to detention camps on Cyprus; in 1946, Cornelius Vanderbilt, Jr., author of the novel Reno which did much to spread the myth that divorcees throw their wedding rings into the Truckee River, was married to Maria Feliza Pablos at the home of Samuel Platt in Reno; in 1949, tribal leaders from four states ended a meeting in Elko at which they decided to not yet participate in a federal program that removed reservations from federal control; in 1953, bandleader Ted Lewis, often credited with being the first big name entertainer to perform at a Nevada casino (the Commercial Hotel in Elko in 1941) began a run at the Riverside Hotel in Reno (Lewis was also the first entertainer to perform in the Riverside theatre); in 1956, the Las Vegas YMCA announced that it was seeking 640 acres of federally managed land south of the city for expanded recreation programs; assistant secretary of defense John McNaughton drafted a memo listing ways the U.S. could provoke Vietnam into attacking to make the U.S. look less like an aggressor ; in 1964, the U.S. Wilderness Act was signed into law; in 1967, U.S.-backed General Nguyen Van Thieu was elected president of the Saigon government with 35 percent of the vote, but the big news was the 17 percent of the vote collected by peace candidate Truong Dinh Dzu, a little known attorney who was then arrested and thrown into prison by Thieu; in 1971, Nixon aides Howard Hunt and Gordon Liddy, with other characters they hired, burglarized the office of psychiatrist Lewis Fielding to obtain the patient file on antiwar activist Daniel Ellsberg; in 1991, movie director Frank Capra (It Happened One Night, Lost Horizon, Mr. Smith Goes To Washington) died.

an "old, well known snow bank" on Thomas Canyon Peak (described as west of Washoe City) that had never been known to disappear even in the hottest summers, was gone under the onslaught of this summer's heat; in 1908, the Nevada Democratic Convention, which featured credentials battles and at least two fist fights, nominated Francis Newlands for reappointment to a new term as U.S. Senator, George Bartlett for the U.S. House, three party regulars as candidates for the electoral college, and Judge Peter Somers was elected as Democratic state chair; the Sparks Labor Day committee and former Democratic U.S. senate candidate Charles McIntosh were quarreling over which of them was responsible for the removal from the Labor Day celebration program book of a page headlined "Kick The Southern Pacific Company Out Of Politics," and whether it was done at the demand of the railroad ; the earth opened and swallowed the Virginia City post office ( NOTE: Perhaps Southern Pacific thought that someone had mailed the offending page there.]; in 1939, shares on the New York Stock Exchange soared after Hitler invaded Poland, beginning World War Two, but then declined after news reports that French Prime Minister douard Daladier was talking about peace negotiations; in 1939, at the start of the school year, Clark County superintendent of schools Maude Frazier warned parents and students that hazing of first year students at Las Vegas High School would not be tolerated; in 1942, amid heightened anti-British and anti-U.S. sentiment following the hanging of Irish Republican Army soldier Thomas Williams for killing a British constabulary officer named Murphy, Ulster women saluted British occupiers and U.S. tourists with Nazi salutes; in 1942, U.S. Senator Berkeley Bunker of Nevada, appointed to the senate by Governor Edward Carville after Senator Key Pittman's death, was easily defeated in the Democratic primary by former governor James Scrugham; in 1945, Japan formally surrendered in ceremonies aboard the USS Missouri, ending World War II [New York Times/AP e-headlines]; in 1953, thirty-seven days after the armistice in Korea was signed, the American Legion called for all-out war against Korea using "the full military strength and might of our government with every usable weapon at its disposal" if further armistice negotiations failed; in 1953, Desert Inn co-owner Wilbur Clark was indicted on four federal counts of tax evasion; in 1972, during a nonviolent protest against living conditions in the Nevada State Prison, three firebombs were tossed into the dining hall; in 1974, the CBS Evening News carried a report by reporter David Dow on the Nevada Democratic primary election race between U.S. senate candidates Maya Miller and Harry Reid; in 1995, Cleveland's Rock and Roll Hall of Fame opened; in 2004, after Vestin Mortgage of Las Vegas  the largest creditor of bankrupt Mid-State Raceway  called for appointment of an independent trustee, Mid-State said it would make the company's problems worse and a federal bankruptcy judge in Reno said the case should be heard in New York instead of Nevada because that's where the company's operations were.

On this date in 1863, Powhatan Locke was temporarily appointed a justice of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nevada (the temporary appointment lasted a year, most of the remaining life of the Territory); in 1878, the Storey County Republican Central Committee voted to require that Republican voters would be permitted to vote in the party primary election only after averring "that he voted for...[Republican presidential nominee Rutherford] Hayes...in 1876, or would have done so had he been a qualified elector."; in 1885,DuBose Hayward, poet and author of the book and play Porgy and collaborator on Porgy and Bess, was born in Charleston, South Carolina (in 2002 he was named one of "Fifty Americans Who Shaped the Nation but Missed the History Books"; the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce chaired by U.S. Senator Francis Newlands of Nevada began a series of hearings on the prospect of a nationwide strike in support of an eight hour work day ; Loyd Alvia "Dutch" Myers was born in Cozad, Nebraska; in 1921, housing could not be found in Reno for the world war veterans attending the University of Nevada under a federal vocational education program; in 1936, in Washington, the U.S. Indian Bureau announced it was acquiring 2,100 acres of land on the south fork of the Humboldt River in Nevada for fifty Native Americans family homesites; after a CIO picket line was withdrawn, work was resumed on installation of an electrical system at Boca Dam, with water releases not possible until the three-week job work was completed (the reservoir created by the dam is used to regulate water flowing to Reno) ; in 1939, Jerry Allison, the member of the Crickets who gave the group its name and boyfriend and husband of Peggy Sue Gerron, was born in Hillsboro, Texas; in 1954, on the first day of senate committee hearings on the censure of U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wisconsin, committee chair Arthur Watkins of Utah gaveled McCarthy and his lawyer Edward Bennett Williams to silence when they kept trying to raise irrelevant issues; the U.S. Food Stamp Act was signed into law ; in 1975, United Press International carried a story about how the U.S. would soon go metric so everyone should learn it; in 1975, Elko officials said they were close to beginning land acquisition for the city's railroad track relocation project; in 1976, George Harrison lost a plagiarism lawsuit over , which bears aMy Sweet Lord striking resemblence to He's So Fine, but the judge in the case (himself a songwriter) said it was apparent that the plagiarism was inadvertant; in 2002, Lionel Hampton, who played vibes in the Benny Goodman Quartet and later led the Lionel Hampton Orchestra, died in New York; in 2005, U.S. Representative James Gibbons, R-Nev., announced his candidacy for the governorship.

On this date in 1963, the hot-line communications link between Washington, D.C., and Moscow went into operation.

On this date in 1991, the Supreme Soviet, the parliament of the U.S.S.R., suspended all activities of the Communist Party, bringing an end to the institution.

On this date in 1955, a black teenager from Chicago, was abducted from his uncle's home in Money, Miss., by two white men after he had supposedly whistled at a white woman. He was found brutally murdered three days later [AP]; 200,000 people participated in a peaceful civil rights rally in Washington, D.C., where Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., delivered his I Have a Dream speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial.

On this date in 1962, the United States launched the Mariner 2 space probe, which flew past Venus the following December. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, guaranteeing women the right to vote, was declared in effect. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Update: Friday, August 25, 2006, 4:57 p.m. PDT  TRUE CABLE TV COMPETITION COMING TO NEVADA FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER? The City of Reno has reached tentative agreement with AT&T to provide cable/video service in competition with Charter Communications. Unlike the Charter franchise, no public input was received. However, Reno city staff has certainly been sensitized to the ratepayer positions, although the council, city manager and community relations department chose to ignore them. Sparks' citizens advisory committee was likewise presented with the research developed in three years of work by the City of Reno's Citizens Cable Compliance Committee. The AT&T franchise will be heard at the Aug. 30, 2006, council meeting. MUCH MORE: Scoops, dupes, shucks and jukes. Don't assume that cable competition is coming soon. [8-31-2006 update: BARBWIRE PREDICTIONS COME TRUE.]  AB

On this date in 1862, Alexi Von Schmidt and his crew were in Verdi working on the survey that produced the Nevada/California border that became known as the Von Schmidt line; in 1879, a fire swept Loyalton, north and west of Reno on the California side of the border, destroying the hotel, Levi & Bros. clothing store, blacksmith shop, saloon, homes, and barns; in 1899, the Reno trial of a man named Arthur Hennesey for vagrancy was not the routine matter it usually was, as other vagrants appeared to testify: "The trial was replete with dramatic statements, as several denizens of the tenderloin district were summond [sic] to give testimony from the witness box" (Hennesey was convicted anyway); in 1910, the Nevada State Journal reported that Peavine Mountain northwest of Reno was a volcano that was erupting with lava pouring from the crater (they couldn't print it if it wasn't true); the Wilson administration asked Nevada to supply 1,580 more men for civilian war work, most of them to be sent out of state ; in 1919, ninety year-old Mary Swartz of Akron, Ohio, went for her first automobile ride in a car driven by her daughter and they got into an accident in Bedford, Pennsylvania, prompting Mrs. Swartz to swear off autos (she took the train back to Akron); in 1932, citing fights started by the practice, Reno police started cracking down on women who boosted drinks ("Buy me a drink?") from customers in speakeasies to help the house; in 1932, saying he would not inquire into the motives of legislators, New York Governor and Democratic presidential nominee Franklin Roosevelt ruled that he would not take testimony in an ouster hearing on New York City Mayor James Walker's claim that removal proceedings against him were part of a Republican cabal; U.S. Representative Samuel Arentz condemned Hoover Dam contractor Six Companies Inc. for issuing scrip instead of money in paying its workers, saying that it could only be sold at a large discount or used at a Six Companies store in Boulder City; and the Nevada State Journal editorialized that Six Companies was "dodging taxes, ducking state laws [designed] to protect the workers, paying in scrip instead of cash, crushing the life out of independent merchants and generally acting as czar in the Boulder City neighborhood" and said the Hoover administration "has accomplished the following to clean up the mess: " (followed by several inches of blank space ; in 1933, in a New York Times article, reporter Walter Duranty denounced as propaganda reports of Soviet government-engineered famine in the Ukraine, one of several reports for which he won the Pulitzer Prize that were entirely inaccurate (a British diplomat said Duranty told him he knew the famine reports were probably correct); Congress approved a $250 million soak-the-rich measure, including estate taxes, a graduated corporation income tax, an excess profits tax, and others ; leaving a Baltimore poor ward for the District of Columbia, John MacDonald, who perjured himself to help the government send labor leaders Tom Mooney and Warren Billings to prison for a parade bombing during the world war that they did not commit, petitioned Congress to help him free the pair ; in 1952, the Nevada State Journal endorsed Alan Bible over Thomas Mechling for the U.S. senate; in 1952, Tonopah Episcopal minister William Wolfe donated a collection of artifacts from his ten years as a missionary among Philippine Igorots to the Nevada Historical Society; in 1954, U.S. Senator Hubert Humphrey's Communist Control Act of 1954, effectively outlawing the communist party, took effect; in 1954, six weeks after a serious earthquake, and after repairs to the distribution system of the Truckee Carson Irrigation District had been made, another earthquake hit so violently that the University of Nevada seismology lab's equipment was disabled, the quake rolling over five western states (ten hours later another one hit, the second and third of a series of four major earthquakes that hit Nevada in 1954), and Governor Charles Russell said he was considering seeking federal aid to deal with the damage from the earthquakes; in 1966, Clark County District Attorney Edward Marshall said he was prepared to prosecute federal officials for violating state wiretap laws in their investigation of skimming in casinos; in 1967, among a small audience that listened to the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi at London's Park Lane Hilton were the Beatles, brought there by Patti Harrison, a member of the Spiritual Regeneration movement; in 1976, delegates to an American Legion national convention booed Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter for saying he would pardon Vietnam war resisters; in 1976, the Nevada Denturists Association filed suit to overturn a law that said only dentists could work with patients on false teeth; in 1990, Nevada district judge Jerry Whitehead, who had previously ruled that the first amendment does not protect subliminal messages, now ruled in favor of Judas Priest, a band which was sued over supposed subliminal messages in their music (which were never shown to exist) that allegedly caused suicide attempts: "The scientific research presented does not establish that subliminal stimuli, even if perceived, may precipitate conduct of this magnitude...The strongest evidence presented at the trial showed no behavioral effects other than anxiety, distress or tension." (Vance v. Judas Priest).

On this date in 1873, the Central Pacific Railroad was having its wooden pipes that ran from above the Masonic cemetery to the Depot Hotel in downtown Reno replaced with iron pipes; in 1887, Stanislaus County (California) District Attorney John Kittrell, a former attorney general of Nevada, was bedridden with eczema and "doubts are entertained of his recovery"; in 1910, a thousand people gathered in Ely for the last Democratic rally of the campaign before the primary, with U.S. senate candidate Key Pittman and Acting Governor Denver Dickerson as principal speakers (state treasurer candidate Jack O'Sullivan sang The Wearing of the Green); in 1914, a chapter of Sigma Nu fraternity was chartered at the University of Nevada in Reno; in 1924, a day after Democratic presidential nominee John Davis denounced the Ku Klux Klan, Republican vice presidential nominee Charles Dawes did the same, and in Texas anti-Klan candidate Miriam Ferguson won the Democratic nomination for governor, which was tantamount to election; in 1952, Sydney's Sunday Sun reported that Britain would detonate an atomic bomb in Australia's Montebello Islands within six weeks, but neither any Australian scientists nor Australian Prime Minister Robert Menzies were invited; in 1963, Vu Van Mau, foreign minister of the Saigon regime, resigned in protest against the southern dictatorship's treatment of Buddhists; in 1969, the legendary album Blind Faith entered the record charts; in 1972, the Republican National Convention in Miami chose Spiro Agnew as its candidate for vice-president over George Romney, whose name was placed in nomination by Nevada GOP state chair George Abbott; in 1983, Chicago Mayor Harold Washington appointed Fred Rice as the city's first African-American police superintendent.

On this date in 1851, the schooner America defeated the Aurora, winning the British cup that U.S. officials then decided to call the America's Cup; in 1878, the Silver Party of Nevada held a primary election to elect delegates to the party's nominating convention; in 1909, the Southern Pacific Railroad began running gasoline motor car service between Reno and Truckee; in 1911, the Nevada State Journal carried a front page article bylined "by Convict No. 1368" that described the emotional reaction inside prison walls in Carson City, including tears, to the death of a horse that had served inmates for twenty years; in 1954, for the thirtieth year, a picnic was held in Oakland's Mosswood Park for hundreds of Nevadans living in the bay area; in 1956, the Nevada delegation's votes put both Dwight Eisenhower and Richard Nixon over the top in the votes on their nominations for president and vice president, with delegation chair Kenneth Dillon announcing both votes: "Nevada is proud to cast the twelve votes which give the nomination to President Eisenhower" and "Nevada, the birthplace of Mrs. Pat Nixon, proudly casts the twelve votes which assure the nomination of Richard Nixon"; in 1956, Elvis began working on his first movie, The Reno Brothers, soon to be renamed Love Me Tender to exploit one of the songs he sang in the film; in 2003, Alabama's chief justice Roy Moore was suspended from office for breaking the law by not obeying a court order to remove a religious marker from the rotunda of the public's court house.

On this date in 1858, the seven Lincoln/Douglas debates in the Illinois U.S. senate race began in Ottowa, Illinois; in 1911, T.T. Lindner, who held an oil lease on land in Churchill County, arrived in Reno where he said he intended to apply to Governor Tasker Oddie and Lieutenant Governor Gilbert Ross for use of the state's drilling rig; in 1920, the Clark County Review reported that Democratic vice presidential candidate Franklin Roosevelt had cancelled appearances in Cheyenne and Reno on August 24 in favor of a Los Angeles appearance; in 1920, Nevada Attorney General Leonard Fowler advised the county clerk of Nye County that voters could sign petitions to place independent candidates on the ballot without losing their own standing as registered voters of a political party; in 1927, Washoe County Surveyor Thomas King predicted that the Mount Rose Road, closed when a lake dam burst, would reopen within 30 days; in Washington, D.C., an AFL report on housing around the nation said Reno needed 100 new houses and that 82 Reno homes were unfit for habitation ; in 1936, in a battle between republican and fascist forces in the Spanish civil war, Algeciras and Gibraltar on opposite sides of the Bay of Algeciras were both bombed; in 1938, a plane flown by Ted Morrill and Mark Peters of Reno was forced by a broken propeller to land at Hubbard Field after sevent- seven hours and five minutes of sustained flight, believed to be a world record; in 1953, U.S. Representative Cliff Young of Nevada reported that the Army Corps of Engineers was reluctant to build a road from Overton through the Valley of Fire to Nellis Air Force Base because it was not a "military necessity"; in 1956, former Nevada governor's press secretary and Nevada Weekly founder Larry Henry was born; 1959, testimony ended in the first case brought before Nevada's new gambling regulatory commission, a cheating case against the shuttered Bonanza Club in North Las Vegas, whose owners also held a casino license for the Carson Nugget; in 1961, Reno casino owner Ernie Primm said he was ending construction of a multi-story complex that included a 900-seat theatre after the Reno city council denied an application for rezoning to permit gambling there, an application that was filed after construction started; in 1965, the antiwar song Eve Of Destruction by Barry McGuire was released; in 1983, Phillippine leader Benigno Aquino was assassinated on the tarmac of the Manila airport moments after returning from exile; in 1986, a cloud of toxic gas emerged from Lake Nyos (shortly to be compared to Nevada's Pyramid Lake) in Cameroon, swept through nearby valleys, and killed more than 1,700 people.

On this date in 1968, the Soviet Union and other Warsaw Pact nations invaded Czechoslovakia to crush the ''Prague Spring'' liberalization drive of Alexander Dubcek's regime. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1934, a plebiscite in Germany approved the vesting of sole executive power in Adolf Hitler as Fuhrer. (See Poor Denny's, below) [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1863, appointed Major George Andrews to be Provost Marshal for the Territory of Nevada; in 1876, the Carson Opera House was dedicated with celebrity preacher Henry Ward Beecher in attendance; a strike by Nevada charcoal workers ended when a Eureka County sheriff's posse opened fire on a camp of about a hundred Italo-American workers at Fish Creek, killing five ; in 1906, the Tonopah Bonanza ran a story, Lady Broker in Town, about Bird Wilson, Nevada's seventh female attorney; in 1916, deputy attorney general Edward Patrick advised a Lander County official that it was legal for women to sign nominating petitions for independent candidates; in 1917, William Townsend received a deferment from war service and went to South America to sell Bibles, an experience that inspired him to create an organization  Wycliffe Bible Translators  that has translated the Bible into thousands of local dialects around the world, sometimes creating written forms for languages in order to do it; women in the United States gained the right to vote with Tennessee's ratification of the 19th amendment to the U.S. constitution, giving the amendment the required number of states ; in 1927, a car bringing Mineral County Senator John Miller, Rear Admiral Luther Gregory and naval Commander Myron Baker back to Reno from an inspection of the proposed site for a U.S. munitions depot near Hawthorne went off the road and rolled over three times, injuring both navy officers; in 1937, U.S. Attorney General Homer Cummings had the FBI checking on private Nazi training camps around the U.S.; ; in 1953, Reza Pahlavi fled to Rome after trying, and failing, to depose Iran's civilian government (the U.S. and Britain would do the job for him, allowing him to return to Iran to impose a quarter-century long reign of terror); assistant secretary of labor J. Ernest Wilkins attended a cabinet meeting, the first known instance of an African American being present in an official capacity at a meeting of the cabinet ; in 1954, two members of the North Las Vegas city council resigned after being acquitted of bribery charges, to be followed shortly by another councilmember and the mayor, clearing the way for remaining councilmember Dorothy Porter to become Nevada's first woman mayor; in 1955, Hilda Gadea and Ernesto "Che" Guevara were married; in 1962, Lee Hays and Pete Seeger's If I Had A Hammer by Peter Paul and Mary was released by Warner Brothers Records; in 1963, James Meredith graduated from the University of Mississippi, the first African American to do so; in 1964, the Beatles left England for their first concert tour of Canada and the United States; in 1991, Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was taken prisoner in a poorly planned coup attempt that fell apart in three days but also left Gorbachev weakened, reformer Boris Yeltsin strengthened, and led to the end of the Soviet Union, exactly the opposite intent of the plotters; in 1995, sports columnist Bill Lyon called the upcoming Mike Tyson/Peter McNeeley bout in Las Vegas the Return of the Rapist, "the illusion of a fist fight" in "a city built on illusions", Don King's "most shining larcenous achievement yet", and "consumer fraud" (the fight lasted less than two minutes); in 1996, travel columnists Gene and Adele Malott reported that Branson, Mo., had surpassed Las Vegas as the "live performance capital" but did not explain how the determination was made, though they did say Branson had become the number one destination for buses, according to the American Bus Association; in 1996, the E channel carried "a close up on the women who are Vegas showgirls."

On this date in 1969, the Woodstock Music and Art Fair concluded near Bethel, N.Y. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1872, William Sharon withdrew as a candidate for appointment to the United States Senate (he would run again in 1874 and be appointed by the 1875 Nevada Legislature); in 1940, at a hearing he demanded before U.S. House Un-American Activities Committee chair Martin Dies, Humphrey Bogart denied being a contributor to the communist party, a charge made against him by a former party member testifying before a Los Angeles County grand jury; in 1940, mobster Benjamin "Bugsy" Siegel, later a Las Vegas casino operator, was arrested by Los Angeles police at his Holmby Hills home for murdering a member of the Louis Lepke gang, an arrest sparked by the New York investigation of Brooklyn's Murder Incorporated; in 1940, Reno Mayor August Frohlich recommended former state district judge, Lander County district attorney, and Nevada legislative bill drafter Antonio Maestretti to the Reno city council to be a municipal court judge; in 1954, federal "trust" supervision of the Klamath tribe of Oregon ended; in 1954, over the objections of the Eisenhower administration, the U.S. House of Representatives approved its version of U.S. Senator Hubert Humphrey's bill outlawing the communist party; in 1954, Ohio common pleas court judge William Thomas, saying he saw "no evidence" in the record submitted by prosecutors to prevent bail being set, released Bay Village osteopath Samuel Sheppard on $50,000 bail, provoking angry comments from prosecutor Frank Culitan and Cleveland police detective chief James McArthur, who threatened to halt investigation of the case in protest against the bail; in 1956, Adlai Stevenson was nominated for president at the Democratic National Convention, with the Nevada delegation voting for Averell Harriman over Stevenson 7 to 5; in 1962, without telling him that the group had just gotten a major recording contract, Beatles manager Brian Epstein informed Pete Best that the other members of the group had decided to drop Best as drummer (Beatles road manager Neil Aspinall, Best's friend, decided to quit in solidarity with him); in 1977, Elvis died at Graceland Mansion in Memphis, Tenn., at age 42.

BARBWIRE special web edition for the Ides of August

Update: Tuesday, August 15, 2006, 12:01 a.m. PDT On this date in 1987, Great Basin National Park Nevada's first and only national park), was dedicated. [Nevada Magazine calendar]

Orville Belding, former Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 350 apprenticeship coordinator, dies. Funeral service set for August 16, 2006. Reno Gazette-Journal family-paid obituary.

On this date in 1861, Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain) arrived in Carson City [Nevada Magazine calendar]; President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law [AP]; President Truman announced that Japan had surrendered unconditionally, ending World War II. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]; workers jumped the fence and stopped work at the Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk, Poland. The strike, led by future President Lech Walesa, sparked the formation of the Solidarity Trade Union. [BARBWIRE]

On this date in 1591, Hernando Cortez brought European civilization to the Aztecs by destroying Tenochtitlan (Mexico City), including the magnificent aqueduct and canal system; in 1881, two months before O.K. Corral, Newman Clanton, head of the Cowboys faction in Tombstone, Arizona, was killed in an ambush in Guadalupe Canyon, New Mexico; in 1890, Nevada State Treasurer George Tufly resigned; in 1896, the Hole in the Wall Gang reputedly robbed a bank in Montpelier, Idaho; in 1926, Fidel Casto was born in Mayari, Cuba; , daughter of President Roosevelt, said in Las Vegas that she expected that her father "probably will visit Boulder dam on his vacation trip to the west coast"; a survey team was set up at Midway to begin work on the Hoover Dam "rim of the lake" road ; in 1942, the motion picture Bambi premiered at Radio City; in 1947, vandals cut down or damaged some of the Japanese cherry trees that lined the Truckee River along Riverside Drive in Reno; Berlin was divided as East Germany sealed off the border between the city's eastern and western sectors in order to halt the flight of refugees. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]; the Daughters of the American Revolution, offended by the antiwar views of Joan Baez, denied the use of Washington's Constitution Hall for a Baez concert; in 1973, Republican national chair George Bush said he had discovered that the Nixon/Agnew campaign had $2.5 million salted away after the 1968 election when it was hitting up GOP contributors for more money to pay off a" deficit" from the campaign, and that it still had a million dollars when it obtained seed money for the 1972 campaign from the Republican National Committee; in 1998, in Las Vegas, Garth Brooks began four concerts over four days, each sold out and with a cumulative audience of 72,076; in 1999, new development or demolition proposals for the Mapes Hotel were due by today, the deadline set by the Reno city council.

He was only 18, dammit...[BARBWIRE: Roll over and play dead]

The only really important political or workplace news of the day 

 An 18-year-old Marine from Sun Valley died Thursday while engaged in combat operations in Iraq, 

 the Department of Defense said Friday.



On this date in 1965, deadly rioting and looting broke out in the predominantly black Watts section of Los Angeles. (See Poor Denny's Almanac for this date, below.) [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1993, Ruth Bader Ginsburg was sworn in as the second female Supreme Court justice.

On this date in 1945, the United States exploded a nuclear device over Nagasaki, Japan, instantly killing an estimated 39,000 people. The explosion came three days after the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

On this date in 1974, President Richard Nixon announced he would resign following damaging revelations in the Watergate scandal. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Congress passed the Gulf of Tonkin resolution, giving President Johnson broad powers in dealing with reported North Vietnamese attacks on United States forces. [New York Times/AP e-headlines] [EDITOR'S NOTE: The "attacks" on the American destroyers Maddox and Turner Joy have since been attributed to either a passing school of dolphins or a CIA-staged event to widen support for the Vietnam War. President Johnson took the "attacks" as an affront to his Texas manhood and reacted just as the CIA hoped he would. The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution was often quoted as a precedent to the congressional resolution supported by both Democrats and Republicans giving President Bush the Lesser permission to go to war whenever his little heart desires more brown people dead. Like the Korean "police action," Vietnam was not an officially declared war. The U.S. has not declared war on another country since World War II. Asking for war powers for what truly should have been a police action has led us to the latter day crusades of today.  BARBWIRE.]

the United States, the United States dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Japan, that instantly killed an estimated 66,000 people in the first use of a nuclear weapon in warfare. [New York Times/AP e-headlines] [EDITOR'S NOTE: Compare the disparity between the latter number and that quoted by Dennis Myers, below. Perhaps the difference lies in the word "instantly." UPDATE: MYERS HAS PROVEN CORRECT, THE NEW YORK TIMES/AP ARE AT BEST UNCLEAR. Here's the answer.]

the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union signed a treaty in Moscow banning nuclear tests in the atmosphere, outer space and underwater. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Britain declared war on Germany while the United States proclaimed its neutrality. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

ON THIS DATE IN 1981, members of the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization (PATCO), a union which had endorsed the election of Ronald Reagan over Jimmy Carter, went on strike and were eventually fired by the Reagan administration. [BARBWIRE]

ANOTHER VACANT HOLE IN THE WALL: 2000 citizen predictions finally verified. After six years of lies and denials, Wal-Mart finally admits to the imminent closure of its Reno Northtowne location.

On this date in 1923, the 29th president of the United States, Warren G. Harding, died in San Francisco. Calvin Coolidge took the oath of office as President of the United States. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Update: Tuesday, August 1, 2006, 7:02 p.m. PDT (RENO) This evening, KRNV TV-4 reported the failure of the Progressive Leadership Alliance/Culinary Union petition, which sought to impose a surcharge on any new Reno casino located outside the downtown redevelopment district. The Washoe County Registrar of Voters has found that the petitions were deficient by 1,046 signatures. The sponsoring entities may appeal to the Reno City Council or the courts. TV-4 was unable to contact a union or alliance representative. A Station Casinos PR person expressed delight.



On this date in 1936, 100,000 saluted Adolf Hitler on his entrance at the opening of the Berlin Olympics. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]



 Comments and suggestions appreciated. Ask for mailing list inclusion.