MOSCOW - Russia's deputy prime minister laughed off President Obama's sanction against him today asking "Comrade @BarackObama" if "some prankster" came up with the list.

The Obama administration hit 11 Russian and Ukrainian officials with sanctions today as punishment for Russia's support of Crimea's referendum. Among them: aides to President Vladimir Putin, a top government official, senior lawmakers, Crimean officials, the ousted president of Ukraine, and a Ukrainian politician and businessman allegedly tied to violence against protesters in Kiev.

It remains to be seen whether the sanctions will dissuade Russia from annexing Crimea, but one an early clue that they will not be effective came just hours later when President Putin signed a decree recognizing Crimea as an independent state, perhaps an early step towards annexation.

U.S. official have warned of additional sanctions for Russian action, hoping it will deter Russia from any further aggression towards Ukraine, but it didn't appear to upset the often outspoke Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin.

Rogozin, a friend of actor Steven Seagal, took to Twitter to tweak Obama, tweeting he thinks "some prankster" came up with the sanctions list

In a later tweet addressed to "Comrade @BarackObama," he asked, "what should do those who have neither accounts nor property abroad? Or U didn't think about it?"

Another Russian on the sanctions list, Vladislav Surkov, also seemed unconcerned.

Surkov, a top Putin ideologue often called the Kremlin's grey cardinal, reportedly told a Russian newspaper, "It's a big honor for me. I don't have accounts abroad. The only things that interest me in the U.S. are Tupac Shakur, Allen Ginsberg, and Jackson Pollock. I don't need a visa to access their work. I lose nothing."

Here's who gets hit with the sanctions:

U.S. officials said that, among the sanctioned individuals were the "key ideologists and architects" of Russia's Ukraine policy, while adding that some of the Russian officials were included in the list for their role in curbing "human rights and liberties" in Russia.

The sanctions freeze any assets under American jurisdiction and prevent American banks from doing business with the named individual, essentially freezing them out of the international banking system. The sanctions also impose a ban on their travel to the United States. Separately, but in coordination with the White House, the European Union announced sanctions today on 21 individuals that it plans to name later. U.S. officials told reporters that the American and European lists "overlapped" in some area, but declined to say how.

While some of the sanctioned officials are bold faced names, the White House move is unlikely to affect Russia's decision making with regard to Crimea's bid to join the Russian Federation. Russia's stock market actually improved on the news that so few officials were included on the list. U.S. officials warned that, if Russia does go ahead with annexation of Crimea, additional penalties will follow, with more, harsher measures to come if Russia attempts to enter eastern Ukraine.

Vladislav Surkov - An aide to President Vladimir Putin, he was once considered one of Russia's most powerful men. He has been called the Kremlin's "gray cardinal" for his role as a power broker behind the scenes. He's also credited the architect of Russia's political system, with power concentrated in the presidency. In the past he was credited with shaping the ideology of the ruling United Russia party. He has also written rock music lyrics and is rumored to have authored a book.

Sergei Glazyev - An economic aide to Putin who oversaw relations with Ukraine. He frequently blasted the protest movement in Kiev and was outspoken in his criticism of American and European support for the protests.

Dmitry Rogozin - An outspoken, hawkish Deputy Prime Minister, he's known to have a close friendship with Hollywood actor Steven Seagal. As a member of Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev's government, Rogozin is responsible for the armed forces and arms industry.

Elena Mizulina - A senior lawmaker, she is considered one of the Kremlin's morality enforcers in the parliament. She is perhaps best known as the co-author of last year's homosexual "propaganda" law which sparked outrage overseas. She also proposed a measure to give Ukrainians Russian passports.

Leonid Slutsky - A lawmaker in the lower house of Parliament. He is the chair of the Committee on CIS Affairs, Eurasian Integration, and Relations with Compatriots. He was one of the Russian observers attending Sunday's referendum in Crimea.

Andrei Klishas - A member of the upper house of Parliament, the Federation Council, who proposed retaliatory action in case of Western sanctions on Russia. He is chairman of the Federation Council Committee of Constitutional Law, Judicial, and Legal Affairs, and the Development of Civil Society.

Valentina Matviyenko - The head of the Federation Council, she is the most senior lawmaker on the sanctions list.

Sergey Aksyonov - Once an obscure pro-Russian politician in Crimea, he has now been declared the prime minister.

Viktor Medvedchuk - A pro-Russian politician, he is being sanctioned for having "materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support" to impeached President Viktor Yanukovich. Ukraine's opposition has accused him of orchestrating or aiding a crackdown on protesters and opposition.

Viktor Yanukovich - The ousted president of Ukraine. He was elected in 2010 but was chased from office by protests last month.