The U.S. jobs market is still kicking up a storm.

After a bit of a lull in December, companies likely hired more workers at the start of the new year. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch predict 190,000 new jobs were added in January after a modest 148,000 increase in the prior month.

Here¡¯s what to watch in the January employment figures. The government will release the report at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.

Kicking off the new year

Virtually every sign points to a strong labor market getting even stronger. Wage growth is accelerating, job openings are near a record high and companies are complaining as loudly as ever about a shortage of skilled workers.

The January jobs report, however, is often a wild card. The government makes annual revisions to U.S. employment figures going back five years, and it refines its process for determining seasonal hires such as temps who work at retailers during the Christmas holidays.

Although most economists predict a strong jobs report ¡ª some even think it will top 200,000 ¡ª there¡¯s still a potential for another soft number.

¡°A much smaller or much larger jobs gain [than forecast] is possible,¡± noted Dwight Johnson, chief economist at the California Credit Union. 



The jobless rate stands at a 17-year low of 4.1%, and it¡¯s expected to hold at that level in January.

Don¡¯t be surprised if it moves a few ticks after the annual revisions. The government often makes sizable changes to the number of people in the labor market and that can temporarily shift the unemployment rate in either direction.

Also Read: Alan Greenspan says there are two bubbles, in stocks and bonds

But make no mistake: Unemployment is extremely low and likely headed below 4% later this year for the first time since 2000. There¡¯s plenty of jobs available and companies want to hire, even if applicants are not of the same quality when the unemployment rate was higher. 



Most Americans who want to work can find a job now, but it¡¯s been a long time since they¡¯ve earned big raises each year.

Hourly pay has risen 2.5% or less since an expansion gained steam in 2010 ¡ª hardly enough to keep ahead of inflation. Typically wages grow 3% to 4% a year at the top of an economic boom.

There¡¯s some evidence that is changing. Another pay measure that economists prefer, the employment cost index, showed the biggest gain in 2017 in worker compensation in three years.

In January, hourly pay is forecast to rise 0.2%. If so, that would keep the 12-month gain in wages at 2.5%. The increase could be higher, though, because of rising minimum wages. Some 18 states raised their minimum wage at the start of 2018. 



American manufacturers added almost 200,000 jobs last year ¡ª the biggest increase since 2014 ¡ª in an effort to keep up with growing sales. And they likely boosted hiring again in January.

Demand at home is strong, and with the global economy flourishing, manufacturers are seeing an uptick in exports. A cheaper dollar is also drumming up demand for U.S. goods.

Unfortunately for manufacturers, they¡¯ve hit a big bottleneck. They simply can¡¯t find enough skilled workers to keep production lines running at full tilt.

Dan North, chief economist at Euler Hermes North America, says a labor shortage has reached the critical stage.

¡°They are desperate for potential employees who have skills, or at the least, who can pass a drug test,¡± he said. ¡°Companies are having to hiring unskilled people at unskilled wages, and train them. That¡¯s part of the reason wages remain weak.¡±