Wal-Mart has three words that may shake the bejeezers out of its retail rivals Home Depot and Lowe's: spring garden sale.

Thursday may be the first day of spring, but tomorrow, March 21 through March 29, the world's largest retailer says it plans to shovel away the rough winter with its biggest-ever spring sales push. Among the highlights: $144 lawnmowers from Murray and Snapper and $298 patio sets from Mainstays.

Wal-Mart will offer discounts of 30% to 50% on more than 60 outdoor essentials ranging from lawn mowers to mulch. The event will be advertised in a 12-page Sunday circular. The company is counting on an extra boost in sales from items like garden soil as shoppers prepare to restore their gardens and outdoor living spaces hurt by a series of winter storms.

It's been a heck of a winter for domestic retailers coast-to-coast. Recent quarterly earnings reports have told the same tale again and again -- the awful winter weather kept away gobs of customers who mostly preferred to stay indoors rather than venture out. Sometimes the stores weren't even open. The discounter said in February that during the height of winter storms, it had more than 200 stores closed.

But executives at Wal-Mart say they knew the lousy winter was coming. The retailer says the sales event was planned last summer as executives received forecasts that the winter was going to be especially harsh.

Even then, the company made changes on the fly because the winter was even more severe than expected.

"I love the fact that we had a rough winter because people are going to be so ready," said Michelle Gloeckler, Wal-Mart's senior vice president of home. She noted that Wal-Mart dramatically increased the quantities of items such as mulch and other outdoor products, in anticipation of increased customer demand. She declined to offer figures.

Wal-Mart's lawn and garden offerings, including plants, are also tailored to the climates of each region. For example, customers in southern markets such as Dallas and Atlanta will find warmer-season plants including petunias and marigolds. Shoppers in northern markets like Chicago and New York will find cold-tolerant varieties such as pansies and snapdragons.

But executives at Home Depot and Lowe's are hardly sitting on their hands. Home Depot's website begs consumers to "Spring into Savings," even offering three bags of Earthgro colored mulch for $10, and free shipping on patio furniture purchases $499 and up. The Lowe's website promotes Spectracide Weed & Grass Killer, regularly $16.67 at $10 per 40 ounce bottle. It also promotes free delivery, assembly and haul-away on grills $399 or more.

Wal-Mart stock was down slightly in early morning trading to $74.16.