The euro experienced some volatility early in the European session but soon rose after the German ZEW index reported a higher than expected number. The index hit a 2-1/2 year high and gave a sigh of relief to markets that Europe¡¯s largest economy will be able to recover from the crisis that has plagued the euro zone.

The euro jumped against the dollar after the data hitting $1.3366, from $1.3302 before the survey. It recovered from a session low of $1.3266 when the euro was hurt by rumours that a German financial regulator (BAFIN) asked two large banks (one being Deutsche Bank) to simulate a split of their investment banking division.

Other news from Europe helped keep a positive sentiment on the single currency ¨C while Spain completed a solid bond auction and another aid installment was released to Greece. Also Eurogroup named its new president to be Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem. The Bundesbank lent further support to the euro on Monday, saying Germany¡¯s economic slump had probably already bottomed out and the economy is gathering momentum.

The yen was the best performing currency today as a result of the Bank of Japan policy announcement following the conclusion of a two-day policy meeting. Yen is up 0.9 percent after it initially weakened dramatically. The reason was because the BOJ said it will conduct unlimited asset purchases but will only begin in 2014, and this disappointed markets. Asset purchases usually weaken a currency but since the BOJ will delay this, investors trimmed their short yen positions, leading to a bounce in yen today.

USDJPY fell to a European session low of 88.35 from the session opening level of 89.26. EURJPY tested lows of 117.31, and is currently down 1 percent since the Asian session open price.

Sterling hit an 11-month low against the euro in the early European session today, weighed down by a bleak outlook for the British economy. EURGBP peaked at 0.8439 before easing on profit taking. GBPUSD was approaching close to a 4-month low reached yesterday but hovered just above $1.5808.

AUDUSD has risen 0.5 percent from yesterday¡¯s close, hitting a high of $1.0577 in mid-European session trading.