The Board of Management of BMW AG has decided to strategically realign its automobile racing activities. In doing so, the company is setting course for a future BMW Group motorsport programme that is as extensive as it is diversified. The commitments contribute to BMW M, BMW i and MINI. The threads for the development of the cars and their race outings will henceforth come together in BMW Group Motorsport.

This realignment, which comes seven years after the withdrawal from Formula One and four years after returning to the DTM, once again ensures that the BMW Group addresses important topics in the ever-changing world of motorsport, is even more broadly positioned, and can thus address different target groups around the world. Classic motor racing and sustainability both play key roles, in order to inspire fans of sporty driving at racetracks all over the planet. The strong pillars of the programme for the coming years will be the DTM, the FIA World Endurance Championship (WEC), the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship (IWSC), the cooperation with Andretti Formula E in the FIA Formula E Championship, the customer racing programme in the GT3 and GT4 categories, the promotion of talented young drivers, and the extremely challenging Dakar Rally.

The focus on production-based motor racing, which was decided upon in 2009, will be further intensified. The commitments in the DTM and the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship continue, and it is also planned to race in the WEC with a new GT car. The BMW M4 GT4 will join the range of models in the customer racing portfolio. BMW will also work closely with US racing legend Michael Andretti¡¯s (US) team in the FIA Formula E Championship ¨C the world¡¯s leading racing series for electric cars. As cooperation partner of Andretti Formula E, BMW Motorsport will cooperate closely with the team, in order to familiarise itself with processes in this innovative series, and to check the possibility of a works involvement in the future. At the same time, BMW i remains the ¡°Official Vehicle Partner¡± of Formula E. Ever since the inaugural season of the series in 2014/15, the BMW i8 Safety Car has taken to the track in Formula E as a high-performance and efficient lead car. Furthermore, MINI¡¯s successful cooperation with Sven Quandt¡¯s X-raid team at the Dakar Rally will also continue.