Paul Yin, a US-trained Chinese psychologist, has lent volunteer counsel to about 20 family members since the Boeing disappeared. On Monday afternoon, he gave a grim account of the emotional tenor inside the ballroom.

The family members ※don＊t rationalise 每 a rationalised explanation doesn＊t help them§, he said. ※It＊s a very sensitive thing, and working with them requires a combination of knowledge, skill, and heart.

※I think most of them are holding on to a thin ray of hope. Whether they believe it to be realistic or not, most of them are not letting it go.

※Some people are trying to help by giving them hope, as nothing has been confirmed yet. But I don＊t want to overstress that. There＊s danger in that 每 if you overstate the hope, then you＊re setting the person up for a bigger fall, which is a dangerous thing to do.

※The uncertainty, really, is the most difficult thing to digest. For instance, for the most part, the fear of death has to do with not knowing what＊s on the other side. And in that sense, this is very difficult.

※Also, because of the uncertainty, any person on a given day, they will have an hour where they feel relatively good, then they will feel horrible, then there＊s another 15 minutes where they＊re outraged, there＊s anger, it＊s totally out of control.

Yin said he was not dispatched by the government or the airline. ※I just came here by myself 每 that＊s how I work,§ he said.

Chinese government officials reportedly met family members for the first time in a hotel meeting room on Monday afternoon. In the 25-minute meeting, the officials told the anxious crowd they were setting up three ※platforms§ to help them cope with the unfolding crisis 每 an ※information and communications platform§, a ※legal counsel platform§, and a ※psychological counseling platform§.

According to the Straits Times, the meeting went poorly 每 ※chaos ensued as families frustrated at the perceived lack of help from the Chinese government ＃ started heckling at the officials. One shouted: ＆Where have you been all this while?＊ Another yelled: ＆Tell us what are the chances of survival for the passengers.＊§

One Chinese television journalist told the Guardian that propaganda officials had issued reporting restrictions on Monday morning. Her station instructed her to ※stick to positive reporting§, and not to focus on family members＊ dissatisfaction with the airline and Chinese government＊s response.