Mahathir Mohamad said the unsucessful four year hunt for the Malaysia Airlines flight could begin again if new evidence emerges. Speaking at a press conference today, Mr Mahathir said: "We have to come to a stage where we cannot keep searching for something we cannot find. "If we find any new information, we may resume the search." The missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 disappeared during its journey from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8 2014, and no sign of any of the 239 passengers on board has been found.

Malaysia's new transport minister Loke Siew Fook terminated the search for missing MH370 on Tuesday, after authorities claimed the flight could not be traced. 



KS Narendran, whose wife was on the missing plane, said Mr Loke¡¯s offer of closure was ¡°simply closing the case file, not resolving the case because someone got tired.¡±



He said: ¡°I am barely able to contain my deep sense of betrayal. 



"It is barely possible to conceal anger at a decision taken without the courtesy of a meeting and consultation with affected families.¡±



Grace Nathan, whose mother was on MH370 said: "People might think: 'Why are these people still harping on about this, it's been four years'. 



"It's important for people to remember that MH370 is not history."



US firm Ocean Infinity carried out a 90 day search operation, with officials promising a 52.3 million ($70million) 'finders fee' for any new details of the missing plane.



Unsuccessful in their findings, Malaysian authorities decided to officially cease the long-standing search.



Ocean Infinity's search operation was expected to end in June, however the team were met with time constraints on refuelling and resupplying their search vessel Seabed Constructor, which disrupted their 90 day search scouring the depths of the Indian Ocean.

Mr Loke declared the government will release a detailed report on the search operation for missing MH370, but the report release date has yet to be confirmed.



He said: "I'm not privy to whatever details that may not have been revealed, but as minister, I am committed to releasing all details to the public."



Experts remain uncertain as to whether MH370 remained under the pilot's command or crashed out of control into the sea.



However, Australian investigators have claimed the pilot was unconscious during the plane's final moments.



The plane's technical failure is another possibility officials have highlighted, but because there is no conclusive evidence as to why the plane crashed, explanation conspiracy theories are widespread.