Alright, while this is a reply comment, I am NOT directly saying anyone is wrong or that their post is mistaken. Please take my words as such.

@unrandomsam

 We live in a capitalistic society. (While I live in the USA, I do speak about everywhere. Why pay more when you can pay less? Everyone just wants to make a buck.) That is run by a model called "Supply and Demand". When a product is produced, such as Nintendo making a single copy of a game, they SELL to the Middle Man (GameStop). If that game never sells, Nintendo still got the $. The Middle Man may refuse to buy other games from that Producer, and therefore the Producer will have problems. Either way, for that product, they still got paid. The Middle Man then takes that game and SELLs to the User (You in this case). THAT is Capitalism. If you can find another Middle Man to sell you at a lower cost, you will BUY from them. As it is, the Middle Man is attempting to SELL at the highest cost they can.

What is "Unnatural Capitalism" is when the Producer has competition where they already hold the rights to that product. You seem to think that it is the Middle Man at fault. They are not. it is the User (YOU). If you refuse to trade the games back in, there would not BE any used games that "leach away money that should be with Nintendo". The Middle Man's JOB is to make the Middle Man money. You CANNOT get upset with them being in a business to make money. That would just be stupid.

@BinaryFragger

 I cannot say your experience is wrong. That would be false. As it is, did you look into the amount of games that they had? The whole concept of the pre-order is so that you are guaranteed the game when it is released. If I pre-ordered a game and some kid ranted and raved until they sold my copy to him I would be REALLY upset. Possibly, they HAD no copies for you to buy. I could be wrong, however I have NEVER had an experience like such.

As for the Rewards Program, that is just a consequence of Capitalism as well. The Middle Man (GameStop Main Company) hires lesser Middle Men (Individual stores) to sell. That is not just Games, but also services. In 10 of the different retail stores that I have worked at, all 10 have had some system that they pushed. If it was their Credit Card, or Batteries, it didn't matter. Failure to meet their quota could cost that cashier their Christmas Bonus, Raise, or even their JOB. Try not to cause them problems just because they are trying to keep their job. (NOTE: This is my opinion, and is NOT based on the situation that you had, as I was not there. They still COULD have just been a jerk...)

@Hy8ogen

 I did not initially respond to your comment, however I spent some time thinking about it so maybe I can shed some light on the situation. Let us talk about a game that JUST came out. $40 Yoshi's New Story. We have to separate this into two groups because Nintendo doesn't play ball as well as others, so let's us also say Bravely Default JUST came out as well. Both are $40, right? GameStop may give ~$10 for a trade in of those games for the first ~2 weeks. Then, they will sell them for ~$35. GameStop offers a 10% discount for members of their Rewards Program. If you buy in, you drop the cost of that game by $3.50. If you know your coupons, GameStop offers a $10 discount on Used Games if you cash in points. I will NOT say that EVERY game has that coupon used, but maybe 10% of buyers have one. So that would be ANOTHER $1 loss on average. That means that a Rewards Member that uses there Coupons only buys a game around $30.

If they bought the game at $10, GameStop only makes $20. With THAT, they still need to pay rent, ($1000/month around where I live), PLUS Utilities (About $200/month for electricity around here), PLUS Employees want to get paid, right? So ANOTHER $8.25/hour/employee. GameStop (around me) never has less than 2 employees working. I also spend time talking to the employees to find out the newest games to watch for. I can tell you that they MAY make a sale like I was talking, (~$20 profit), once every 2 hours. That is 4 work hours alone. Or $8.25 times 4, ($33). As it is, They LOSE money at that rate. And that is at that large "profit". The little "sale" that they do like the Rewards Program is JUST enough for them to squeak by most the time. And even if there is a bigger "profit" than that, why shouldn't a company be allowed to make money?

Why did I separate Nintendo from other companies? Because Nintendo retains value. If that GameStop FAILED to sell that game in a month, it would probably have to DROP the price and cause that GameStop to lose the little bit they may have made of that game. Bravely Default is a game that is CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED and yet it has had a drop in price to about $38. By this time next month, I expect the price to be below $35. And GameStop will have to be below that price to sell used. What if there is another month? It will probably be even lower than that! Nintendo is the only company to avoid devaluing so often and that is because they care about that. Whenever I try to sell a Nintendo game, I usually get $25 for that point alone. GameStop knows that the value doesn't depreciate.

@hcfwesker

 There are some sprays that you can find to get the stickers off of plastics like the cover plastics. Take a look, they are worth it if that is a pet peeve.