Your customers are always looking to score the best deal. They¡¯ll use price comparison apps and websites to find the best price for the product they¡¯re looking to buy. With countless price comparison websites on the market, it¡¯s never been easier for your customer to find the best prices around. As an online retailer, you can learn to master the art of product pricing by analyzing how your competitors price their products. In this article, you¡¯ll find the best price comparison websites and apps on the market.

Price comparison is when the price of the same product is compared in different outlets.

Who doesn¡¯t like to save money on their purchases? Comparison shopping is a habit that customers have developed that helps them find the best deals online. With a tonne of price comparison shopping engines and discount shopping websites, it¡¯s becoming increasingly simpler for customers to find the best deals online. Whether they¡¯re looking to compare flight prices or hotel prices for a vacation, or they¡¯re simply looking to compare local supermarket prices to see where they can get the best deals. Everything is becoming attainable through price comparison search engines.

A price comparison app or website allows you to compare prices for products. The app shows you the product prices from different retailers to show you where to buy the product affordably. Some apps require you to scan the barcode while others allow you to type in the product name to find your product. The price comparison website then shows the customer a list of retailers who are selling the same product, and how much they¡¯re selling for. Those looking to save money on purchases are more likely to use a price comparison app. To attract budget-conscious customers you¡¯ll need to offer a lower product price. However, it isn¡¯t necessary to lower your product price to attract customers to your store.

Why You Need to Use Price Comparison Websites
 Your customers do : Some of your customers are likely using price comparison sites to find the best deal. By using price comparison tools, you can see what types of prices are attracting your customers into a purchase. You¡¯ll also see which competitors are being shown to your customers.
 To find out if your products are on it : As your brand grows in popularity, you¡¯ll want to use price comparison apps to see if your brand and products are on it. If your brand is on the platform, you¡¯ll want to know who¡¯s prices are better than yours. If your brand isn¡¯t on it but your products are, you may be at a disadvantage if you offer better pricing.
 To learn who your competitors are : You can monitor price comparison websites to see who your competitors are. With so many new brands popping up each day, it can be hard to keep track of who¡¯s quickly climbing the ranks within your niche. You can discover new competitors using price comparison programs. So, why not compare yourself to your competition, before your customers do it.
 To see how your competitors price : Tools that show price comparison allow you to see how your competitors price their products. By seeing what type of pricing works well for popular competitors, you¡¯ll better understand how to price products on your store. You¡¯ll know which competitors are offering lower prices.
 To determine how to price your products : Ultimately, you¡¯ll have the final say in how to price your products. Price comparison tools help you understand how your competitors price your products. You¡¯ll know what the average is between your competitors to determine if your products are priced within industry standards. However, you aren¡¯t required to lower your price, especially if it¡¯ll greatly affect your margins. A Ultimately, you¡¯ll have the final say in how to price your products. Price comparison tools help you understand how your competitors price your products. You¡¯ll know what the average is between your competitors to determine if your products are priced within industry standards. However, you aren¡¯t required to lower your price, especially if it¡¯ll greatly affect your margins. A competitive pricing intelligence strategy is a lot harder than it sounds.
 None When it comes to Online Shopping,
 None Even if consumers prefer to make the final purchase in physical stores, they still do their research online first. A study by Market Track shows that of consumers do online price comparisons in all categories before making a purchase decision in a physical location.
 None On average, customers tend to visit at least websites before making their purchase decision. As a general rule, the more money that a customer is planning to spend on a product, the longer they¡¯re going to be searching for the best deals online. For instance, when it comes to smartphones, customers tend to spend much longer to compare prices, than when they compare book prices. That¡¯s why it¡¯s no surprise that searching for iPhone price comparisons is a very popular search query.
 A study by the e-tailing group discovered that consumers highly value the ability to research a product before purchasing it, in order to find the best price guarantee. The current online consumer behavior is based on the efficiency of price comparison. This means that customers are highly likely to Google prices of the products that they¡¯re interested in, or for instance use the Amazon price check before they decide what they should buy. This is where comparison shopping engines and apps step in, in order to facilitate this growing need of consumers.

Google Shopping (previously known as Google Product Listing Ads, Google PLAs) is a great resource for store owners looking to find competitors selling similar products and compare product pricing between competitors. There¡¯s no doubt that Google is top of the list when it comes to comparison shopping engines. Store owners can even add their products to Google Shopping to drive more traffic back to their stores. Many dropshippers have added their products to Google Shopping. Customers are able to sort products based on price and seller.

You can trust Google to always do the best. Google scrapes data from around the web, and presents it to you in a way that¡¯s useful for you to use. The price comparison feature of Google Shopping is just a part of the search engine itself. All you have to do is search for the product under the Shopping section. When you click on the product that you¡¯re interested in, you¡¯ll be presented with a few photos of the product, a product description, reviews, and pricing information from various different retailers. Products are automatically listed based on the lowest price showing as the first option, but if you¡¯re not fond of a particular retailer, you can expand the options and see the full table comparison.

Yahoo Shopping¡¯s price comparison website is similar to Google Shopping. Store owners can add their products to the platform. You¡¯ll find products sold by brands like Walmart and Amazon on the platform.

The Yahoo comparison shopping engine is fairly easy to use. You simply have to enter the product you¡¯re looking for into the search bar and you¡¯ll be presented with pages of results matching your search query.

BizRate allows customers to find the best prices, set price alerts and search through countless deals on their price comparison search engine. Whether customers are looking for a specific product or to scroll through collections, BizRate¡¯s platform offers a great variety of product deals. When it comes to the best price comparison shopping engines, BizRate is definitely high up on the list. This is because of its user friendly website and wide range of results. A few features that make BizRate stand out include the option to download links to PDF user manuals for hundreds of devices and gadgets. It also has a price alert feature, which is quite simple to use. All you have to do is enter your email address and a price threshold, and BizRate will notify you whenever the price of your selected product has fallen within your alert range.

CamelCamelCamel is a price comparison platform for Amazon. Customers can look through great deals that motivate them into an impulse purchase. The website lists the current price, the average price from various sellers and the list price to show customers the deal they¡¯re getting from buying the product on Amazon. It also features product price drops which can be valuable for store owners looking to get a competitive edge. The great thing about this comparison shopping engine is that if you want to compare amazon prices, you¡¯ll also be presented with ¡°3rd Party New¡± and ¡°3rd Party Used¡± product prices, so that you can find the best deals online. That¡¯s why, if you¡¯re looking for a fast Amazon price check, CamelCamelCamel is the right comparison shopping engine for you.

NextTag is one of the oldest comparison shopping engines. This price comparison website allows customers to set price alerts, compare sellers, find similar products, and more. Customers can find the best deals from sites like Amazon and eBay. Many dropshipped products are on NextTag¡¯s platform, allowing dropshippers to see popular product pricing.

Pronto can be a useful price comparison website for store owners. When you search for products on Pronto, you¡¯ll find a variety of websites selling similar products like Walmart, Overstock, Bed Bath & Beyond, Amazon, and more. You can use popular retailer¡¯s pricing as a guide for your own online store. This comparison shopping engine lets you compare prices online by pulling product data from thousands of stores across the web. You can use a bunch of filters to alter your search results and compare prices online to get the best deals online.

ShopSavvy is a price comparison app that allows you to scan barcodes in store. You¡¯ll be able to see prices for both physical and online stores. The app does a price comparison, showcases product reviews, and helps customers find the best deals. But it¡¯s functions don¡¯t end there. This comparison shopping engine also allows you to set up notifications for specific categories, items, or searches so that you can get notified instantly if there¡¯s a sale on your selected items, or if it¡¯s available in store again. As one of the most popular price comparison apps, ShopSavvy has over 100 million downloads. The platform receives over 50 million product scans each month.

PricePirates shows customers the best prices for products on Amazon, Shopping.com, and eBay. This app comes in handy if you¡¯re looking to compare Amazon prices. All you have to do is enter your product name in the search bar, and you¡¯ll be given a list of products that match your search query. You¡¯ll be able to compare prices with products available on Amazon, Shopping.com, and eBay. AliExpress dropshippers are likely to find the products they sell on one of these apps. Notably, suppliers are likely to be the ones offering the best product prices on these platforms. Thus, as a store owner, you likely wouldn¡¯t try to compete with the prices on these platforms.

BuyVia¡¯s price comparison app shows the best prices from sites like Amazon, Walmart, Target, and more. Customers can scan barcodes and QR codes. Customers can also customize the app to only show relevant offers and products. This price comparison shopping app also notifies you when there are sales on the categories of products that you select when you initially set up the app. Another thing you can do is create price drop alerts for any specific items, to get the best price guarantee for the products that you¡¯re looking for.

BuyVia¡¯s price comparison app might not have the best looking results page, especially in comparison to the other apps on this list, but the good thing is that it usually shows you options that other price comparison apps might not. For instance, if you are looking to compare book prices, the BuyVia app will also list used books, as well as brand new ones, giving you a wider choice of selection.

Pricena is a great price comparison app for those in the Middle East, Nigeria, or South Africa. If your online store sells to these countries, monitoring product prices on this app can help you stay competitive. You can also use their website to search product pricing. Their app shows reviews, price fluctuations, product details, and more. This price comparison app is super helpful if you¡¯re looking to compare amazon prices. You can use it for all sorts of product categories like fashion, sports, laptops, or even for an iPhone price comparison.

Now Discount¡¯s price comparison app helps customers get online prices from local retailers. It helps brick and mortar retailers compete with online retail pricing to draw in more customers into stores. Brick and mortar retailers can choose whether or not to sell the item at the online price or for a discounted price. The app connects consumers to stores in their geographical location. This means that customers can also use this app to compare supermarket prices in their geographic location.

The ScanLife price comparison app allows customers to scan product barcodes to find the best deals. Customers can also receive rewards allowing store owners an opportunity to reward customers for loyalty. This price comparison app is also very user-friendly as the main screen is a barcode scanner, which means you can scan items straight away as you open the app.

ShopMania¡¯s Google Play price comparison app allows customers to see the deals and promotions within their country. Your customers can compare prices within various product categories or search for specific products. They can also create wish lists and scan products to find the best prices on the market.

Quick Scan¡¯s price comparison app is available on both Google Play and iOS. The app has product prices for thousands of popular retailers. Customers will be able to find the lowest prices online or in store. They can scan a range of barcodes to find the best price of a product found in store. Customers can even sort scanned items by price or by store. This price comparison app lets you scan both barcodes and QR codes, which means you¡¯ll be just a scan away from finding the best price guarantees.

Price Runner¡¯s UK price comparison website compares websites from top retailers such as Amazon, ASOS, House of Fraser, and other top UK brands. Store owners can compare prices with reputable brands to determine how to best price the products on their website. This price comparison website has a fresh and easy-to-use interface, with a rather modern outlook. You even have access to price histories, price alerts, price information, and reviews. And if you prefer to buy the product locally, it¡¯ll even direct you on where to go.

Idealo is a price comparison UK website that shows the best product prices from popular sites like Amazon and eBay. Dropshippers are likely to find items they sell on this price comparison website. Shipping prices are listed with the product price showing dropshippers the total cost of the product for a customer.

This price comparison website is fairly simple to use. All you have to do is search for your desired product in the search bar, and you¡¯ll get pages worth of products, with their price listed below them. If you click on any individual item, you¡¯ll get product descriptions, the number of offers they have, reviews and even international prices.

PriceChecker is a UK price comparison website allows you to compare prices of electronics, entertainment, household goods, fashion and more. Store owners can benefit from having their products featured on the website as not all products have competition. Some products on the site only have one retail price while others allow customers to compare prices.

PriceSpy¡¯s price comparison website allows customers to find the best prices for product categories like beauty, photography, fitness, and more. Customers can narrow their search based on various parameters to find the best deals on products. They can also use the search bar to find the best prices and best deals online for specific items.

Skinflint is a price comparison tool dropshippers can use to compare pricing for products in the UK. You can search popular items you sell in the search bar and you¡¯ll be shown the product pricing for various retailers. The price comparison website shows the best pricing in the UK and the EU. If you sell to a European audience, you might find this website handy.

Shop To It¡¯s price comparison website allows Canadians to find the best prices locally and online. Customers can even choose to find products within their own province or territory. Customers can find the best deals from ecommerce sites such as Amazon, eBooks.com, Overstock, Zazzle and more.

Comparator is a computer and electronics price comparison website. Customers can compare product pricing for various products, view price history, reviews and specs on each product page. This price comparison shopping engine does more than just compare prices. It also gives you a list of popular products, daily deals, and latest products on the main page, facilitating your discount shopping needs.

PriceBat allows Canadians to monitor price comparisons within the computers and electronics niche. From ink cartridges to tv mounts, customers can find the best product pricing to save more money. Each item lists it¡¯s lowest and highest product price for each individual product. Customers will see the price variation between brands to know where they should buy the product they seek.

The Pricewatch price comparison USA website allows you to monitor product pricing for electronics products such as tablets, monitors and mice. Those in the computer or electronics niche could benefit from monitoring the competition within this niche.

Shop Wiki¡¯s price comparison app allows you to see product prices from countless stores. You¡¯ll find prices from brands like Groupon, Amazon, Wayfair, Target, and more. To use this comparison shopping engine, you have to simply search the product you¡¯re looking for in the search bar, and within seconds you¡¯ll get lists of results relating to your search query. You can filter your choice by narrowing the price range, or setting your own price range. Also, you can limit your search to specific categories, or select your preferred merchants.

PayLessDeal is one of the best price comparison websites on the Australian market. Australians can easily find the great deals on millions of products. The price comparison website has countless product categories listed on their website making it more likely that dropshipped products are on the platform. Store owners interested in doing market research can easily find what products local Australian businesses are selling.

A popular price comparison website in Australia is GetPrice. Customers can compare product prices in popular niches such as electronics, clothing and fashion, books and more. They cover product prices for various cities within Australia such as Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, and more. Retailers in Australia can stay competitive by monitoring other Australian businesses.

Gimme Shopping Australia is a great Australian price comparison website that allows customers to find the best product prices online. Store owners can choose to have their products listed on the platform for free. They pride themselves in being an ad free platform to avoid biasing their customers. The platform can help store owners drive more traffic to their online stores. However, you will need to pay a commission for traffic that leads to sales.

Want to learn more?
 How I launched my eCommerce store in less than 30 minutes (with products)
 Pricing Strategy for eCommerce ¨C Is Your Price Right?
 Comparison of the Best Email Marketing Platforms for eCommerce
 Top 15 Free Shopify Apps You Need to Install

Have you used a price comparison app or website to determine your product prices? Let us know what tactics you¡¯ve used to create product prices in your store.