The Twitter war raging between Piers Morgan and JK Rowling appears to have reached its zenith with the Harry Potter author clocking up a notable victory against her social media nemesis.

Morgan appeared to score a spectacular own goal in his Twitter confrontation with Rowling on Tuesday, criticising a flattering description of the author that it transpired he had written.



The two high-profile figures share an enthusiasm for tweeting and have been embroiled in a public sparring match on the platform since Sunday, when Rowling wrote that Morgan ¡°being told to fuck off on live TV [was] exactly as satisfying¡± as she had imagined. He called her ¡°superior, dismissive and arrogant¡±; she called him a ¡°celebrity toady¡±.

On Tuesday, Valentine¡¯s Day, Rowling tweeted a screenshot of a flattering description of her as an ¡°intensely¡± private, successful author who has encouraged children ¡°to read, feel inspired and be creative¡±.

¡°Just been sent this! Could the writer let me know who he is! I¡¯d love to thank him! #Valentines¡± she tweeted.

The text noted Rowling¡¯s commercial success, personal wealth and ¡°squillions of awards ¡­ So Ms Rowling definitely matters.

¡°She would hate to be called a celebrity and guards her private life intensely so she doesn¡¯t play any part of the celebrity game ¡­ But by encouraging children to read, feel inspired and be creative, she has had a greater impact on the world than [many other celebrities].¡±

Morgan seized on Rowling¡¯s tweet, identifying it as ¡°priceless #humblebrag BS¡±. A ¡°humblebrag¡± is defined as ¡°an ostensibly modest or self-deprecating statement whose actual purpose is to draw attention to something of which one is proud¡±.

¡°Nobody plays the celebrity game more abusively or ruthlessly than you, Ms ¡®Intensely Private Billionaire¡¯,¡± Morgan wrote.

Twitter users delighted in noting that Morgan himself was the author of the description, part of his March 2010 list of ¡°the 100 British celebrities who really matter¡±.

Morgan had placed Rowling at 97.

After a BuzzFeed reporter tweeted that Morgan ¡°didn¡¯t realise¡± he had written the quote (and that it was the best day of the reporter¡¯s life), Morgan said he was merely questioning his own past judgment of which British celebrities really mattered.

¡°Relax, quarter-wit, I knew what it was. Just surprised I put her as high as 97th.¡±

Rowling had not publicly responded but was assumed by the Guardian to be wordlessly punching the air at her computer.

Morgan went on to share, several times, a YouGov survey that said the British public vastly preferred Rowling over him, commenting variously: ¡°Who wants to win the popular vote these days, anyway?¡± and ¡°Says YouGov, who predicted wins for Remain & Hillary.¡±



He later retweeted a tweet comparing his row with Rowling to ¡°North Korea playing Iran at football. Devil¡¯s own job knowing who to cheer for.¡±