South Carolina's unemployment rate has fallen below 4 percent, edging closer to its lowest point since the turn of the century.

The state Department of Employment and Workforce said Friday that South Carolina's unemployment rate stood at 3.9 percent in July, which matched June's revised figure. It hasn't been lower since October 2000.

As the unemployment rate has fallen, the historically tight labor market has dampened the state's job growth. South Carolina payrolls grew at a 1.5-percent clip over the year, cooling off from a booming expansion this time last year.

But in recent months, the state has picked up some momentum again: In July, the state added a robust 7,700 jobs after adjusting for seasonal patterns like summer hospitality hiring.

The catch-all category of professional and business services led the expansion with 2,800, but the public sector, manufacturing and hospitality industry posted solid gains, too.

The state¡¯s lone weak spot was trade and transportation, a category that includes retail stores, which have shed jobs as e-commerce snaps up more consumer spending. The sector cut 3,100 jobs last month.

"Economic life is good," said Rick Kaglic, a Charlotte-based economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. "The last three months have been very good for South Carolina."

Still, July¡¯s positive figures don't account for the end of construction at the V.C. Summer nuclear power plant near Columbia, which led to one of the largest and most abrupt layoffs in the state's recent history. More than 5,000 construction workers lost their jobs on the spot, and hundreds more engineers and administrators will be laid off in the coming months.

The silver lining of the layoffs is that the workers could be absorbed into the labor market quickly. Contractors across South Carolina have complained that construction workers are hard to come by in the midst of a building boom in most cities.

That sort of hiring difficulty is indicative of the struggle businesses across the state say they¡¯re facing, which has put the brakes on job expansion.

Leading South Carolina's slowdown was Charleston, which has been the engine of the state's growth through much of the economic recovery.

For the first time in four years, the tri-county area grew at a slower rate than the rest of the Palmetto State. The Lowcountry also has the state's tightest job market with an unemployment rate of 3.7 percent, though the labor department doesn't account for seasonal patterns in local figures.

South Carolina's job market is slightly tighter than the rest of the country ¡ª the national unemployment rate was 4.3 percent in July ¡ª but hiring has become more challenging across the country.

Bobby Hitt, the state¡¯s Commerce Secretary, told a senate subcommittee this week that the state's low unemployment rate isn't yet giving manufacturers pause when considering South Carolina, but it is impacting some of the state's lower-income job sectors.

"I have not yet had a company say they are not interested in coming here because they are worried," Hitt said, adding that other southeastern states have similarly tight labor markets.

Hitt said more people in historically low-paying jobs, such as construction and the service industry, are training for better-paying jobs in manufacturing, and that's leaving a void in those entry-level positions.

A consequence of the shrinking labor pool of construction workers, Hitt said, is higher costs for manufacturers looking to build new facilities.

"We have recruited companies and their cost of build was higher than they thought because the demand we have on the construction side has driven prices up," he said.