U.S. stocks finished higher Thursday, near their intraday highs, as an Apple-inspired rally in the tech sector helped to lift the broader market following a deluge of macroeconomic reports.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.43% closed up 177.71 points, or 1%, at 18,212.48, led by a 3.4% surge in shares of Apple Inc. AAPL, -6.63% All 30 of the Dow components finished in the green.

The S&P 500 index SPX, -0.63% wrapped up 21.49 points, or 1%, to 2,147.26, and all the large-cap gauge¡¯s sectors ended higher, topped by a 1.7% rise in the tech sector and a 1.1% gain in health-care shares.

Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, -1.04% enjoyed the sharpest rise among its peers, closing 75.92 points, or 1.5%, higher at 5,249.69, after being up by as many as 81 points. All of the main indexes benefited from Apple¡¯s consistent weekly jump¡ªits fourth consecutive rise of at least 2%. For this week alone, shares are up 12%.

The Cupertino, Calif.-based tech giant has been among best performing shares this week, following strong demand for its new iPhones and upbeat analyst comments. Apple tends to do well in times of market volatility, which has been a major theme this week.

The three main benchmarks on Thursday marked their fourth move of at least 1% in the past five sessions, after more than a month of torpor as volatility escalates in September.

¡°The S&P 500 was right at a support level this morning at 2,120 and passing above that created a momentum for the rally.¡± said J.J. Kinahan, chief strategist at TD Ameritrade. ¡°Another important reason for the buying appetite is due Friday marking quadruple witching¡ªthe expiration date for stock-index futures, stock-index options, stock options, and single-stock futures. People are unwinding positions and today is their last chance,¡± he said.

Earlier in the session, investors were training their focus on retail sales, which showed a decline in August¡ªthe first since March. Meanwhile a weekly report on jobless claims ticked higher but remained at historically low levels. And, producer prices remained flat, suggesting lack of inflation pressures.

The data come ahead of the Federal Reserve¡¯s much-anticipated, two-day policy meeting scheduled for Sept. 20-21.

¡°Data releases were inconclusive, not strong enough to warrant a rapid change in the monetary policy, and not weak enough to warrant a change in rate expectations, which means more uncertainty of what the Fed is going to do,¡± said Eric Wiegand, senior portfolio manager at the Private Client Reserve, U.S. Bank.

Wiegand noted that September and October tend to be seasonally weak for equities, where ¡°violent yet sideways markets¡± are likely to persist until third-quarter earnings are released.

Earlier, stocks had traced fluctuations oil prices, but West Texas Intermediate CLV6, +0.00% ended settling up 0.8% at $43.91 a barrel.

Slumping crude-oil prices weighed on stocks on Wednesday, leaving the Dow industrials and the S&P 500 to close in negative territory.

Data deluge: In the limelight were retail sales for August, which fell for the first time in five months.

¡°Retail sales number was disappointing, especially given that so many economists were forecasting an improvement in the second half of the year. The economy is growing at an anemic pace,¡± Wiegand said.

The U.S. central bank is widely expected to hold fire next week when it meets, with the CME FedWatch Tool pointing to an only 15% probability of a rate increase. However, for the December meeting, the probability currently stands at almost 53%.

There won¡¯t be any comments from Fed officials in the run-up to the meeting as the central bank is in its so-called blackout period.

Weekly jobless claims ticked up slightly to 260,000 but the level of layoffs continues to be the lowest since the 1970s

U.S. wholesale prices were flat in August, mostly because of sharp declines in the cost of food and gasoline.

The Empire State manufacturing index, which measures conditions in the New York area, remained in contraction territory. The so-called Philly Fed data¡ªa reading of manufacturing in the Philadelphia region¡ªincreased for a second consecutive month.

Industrial production contracted in August after a promising expansion in the previous two months, the Federal Reserve said Thursday.

Movers and shakers: Shares of Aerie Pharmaceuticals Inc. AERI, -2.90% soared 45% after the drug discovery company¡¯s treatment for lowering fluid pressure inside the eyeball yielded promising results.

Shares of Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company GT, -1.24% jumped 5.1% after the tire company boosted its quarterly dividend by 43%.

Other markets: Stocks in Asia closed mixed, with Japan¡¯s Nikkei Stock Average NIK, +2.56% sliding as a stronger yen USDJPY, +0.42% put pressure on exporters. Markets in South Korea, China and Taiwan closed for a public holiday.

European markets were mostly higher after the Bank of England held interest rates steady on Thursday.

The ICE dollar index DXY, +0.21% was fractionally lower at 95.31. Metals prices were mostly lower, with gold US:GCZ6 settling down 0.6% at $1,318 an ounce.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.