Exclusive webcast on August 7 will take a closer look at new updates and improvements to the process

The Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices, announced today that the 2019 Ethics Quotient process, which is used in part to determine which companies meet the standards for inclusion on the World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies list, will open August 7.

The selection process is guided by Ethisphere¡¯s proprietary Ethics Quotient, an assessment consisting of more than 200 questions on culture; environmental, social, and governance practices; ethics and compliance activities; diversity; and initiatives to support a strong value chain. The process is intentionally designed to serve as an operating framework that captures and codifies leading practices of organizations across industries and around the globe. The data obtained from the World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies application provides a holistic assessment of where companies stand in their programs that allow them to compare and benchmark against the gold standards of leading companies.

The deadline to submit the completed assessment and supporting documentation is Friday, November 9, 2018, at 11:59 p.m.

Companies considering participating in this year¡¯s application process should register for the upcoming webcast on August 7 at 1 p.m. ET by visiting https://events.ethisphere.com/events/webcast-2019-wme-eq.

As the process changes from year to year, both new and repeat participants are encouraged to join the instructive webcast ¡°World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies: A Guide to Applying in 2019.¡± During this webcast, participants will have a chance to explore the significant changes to the questionnaire and review the new Comprehensive Documentation Guidelines to better understand what documentation the review team expects to see as part of a submission. Moreover, attendees will have the opportunity to ask questions and glean important insights about the new and improved application process.

¡°When we initiated the World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies honoree list in 2007, phrases like ¡®corporate ethics¡¯ and ¡®corporate social responsibility¡¯ were buzzwords that companies only said in a press release. Today, we see more and more signs that these phrases are now part of the everyday lexicon from the boardroom to the field, and we are proud to honor those companies that best represent this important ethical evolution,¡± Ethisphere Chief Executive Officer Tim Erblich said. ¡°Businesses that act with purpose, integrity, and responsibility are a beacon for others to follow. In 2018, we were pleased to honor 135 companies with this designation. Through their commitment to values and practices that advance employees, society, and communities, these companies continue to serve a social purpose and have recognized that it¡¯s possible to do well by doing good.¡±

Ethisphere¡¯s notion that financial value and ethics are inexorably tied together was borne out through long-term tracking of how the stock prices of publicly traded honorees compare to the US Large Cap. Our research found that listed World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies outperformed the large-cap sector over a five-year period by 10.72 percent and over three years by 4.88 percent. Ethisphere refers to this as the Ethics Premium. [https://www.worldsmostethicalcompanies.com]

¡°At Ethisphere, we have been working closely with our methodology committee to ensure that, year over year, we are measuring the right elements and making sure the application itself is an opportunity for improvement and growth for companies,¡± said Michael Byrne, Senior Vice President, Ethisphere. ¡°Companies that earn this designation use the data obtained as an organizational framework to build a holistic program with best practices in mind.¡±

After the webcast, registrants will be sent the Application Guide and invited to request their company¡¯s custom URL. Scorecards will be sent to each applicant following the 2019 honoree announcement.

Companies earning the World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies distinction in 2019 will be honored at Ethisphere¡¯s World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies Honoree Gala Dinner in New York City on March 12, 2019.

The gala is followed by the 11th Annual Global Ethics Summit, which connects over 250 organizations and more than 500 distinct leaders and will take place at the Grand Hyatt in New York City March 13-14, 2019. Early registration and discounts are available here.

Click here to see a full list of the 2018 World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies honorees and download our Leading Practices and Trends from the 2018 World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies report, which captures and codifies leading practices of organizations across industries and around the globe.

About Ethisphere

 The Ethisphere Institute is the global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices that fuel corporate character, marketplace trust, and business success. Ethisphere has deep expertise in measuring and defining core ethics standards using data-driven insights that help companies enhance corporate character. Ethisphere honors superior achievement through its World¡¯s Most Ethical Companies recognition program, provides a community of industry experts with the Business Ethics Leadership Alliance (BELA), and showcases trends and best practices in ethics with Ethisphere Magazine. Ethisphere is also the leading provider of independent verification of corporate ethics and compliance programs, including Ethics Inside Certification and Compliance Leader Verification. More information about Ethisphere can be found at https://ethisphere.com.