With Turkey¡¯s AK Party (AKP) now facing a challenge to forming a government after losing its majority in the nation¡¯s general election on Sunday, the shock result might be challenging the merits of investing in one of the world¡¯s fastest emerging markets. While the Turkish Lira and stockmarket took a big hit, could matters get trickier still?

Indeed, over the past week or so since 1 June the Turkish Lira (TRY) has lost around TRY0.16 (c.-5.5%) against the Euro and was trading in a range between TRY3.08-3.10 on 8 June. And, it declined to an all-time low as it plummeted some 5% to around TRY4.3 to a British pound on the Monday after the election - having been TRY3.6 at the start of this year - equivalent to a 16% loss. Add insult to injury and the Turkish index of top 100 stocks fell 6.3% in early trading the same day.

This is all a far cry from when the Borsa Istanbul (BIST), Turkey¡¯s stock exchange spanning equities, derivatives, bonds and gold products, came to London¡¯s Park Lane on 20 January 2015 on the third leg of its ¡®Global Actor Forum¡¯ and formally signed a partnership agreement with the Group.

Attending this glitzy event that attracted a packed audience I heard Ahmet Davutolu, Turkish prime minister, extoll the virtues of the London and Istanbul tie-up, which would act as a bridge between east and west and be a ¡°win-win¡± for both markets - and the world.

The agreement, which is subject to regulatory approval in the second half of 2015 and ¡°customer readiness¡±, will see the London Stock Exchange Derivatives Market (LSEDM) offer trading in futures and options on the BIST 30 Index and leading blue-chip Turkish stocks. At the time the flagship BIST 30 Index futures was trading on average of over 170,000 contracts per day on its home market.

While the shock election result might have thrown a spanner in the works, one should point out that Turkey chalked up GDP growth of 1.7% for the third quarter of 2014 - versus 0.7% for the UK - and was on track to being the fastest growing economy in the G7 in 2014.

In addition to having developed a New Capital Markets Law, which was written from scratch that takes into account the lessons of the past and the lessons of the financial crisis, Turkey has also set an ambitious goal to reach US$500 billion (bn) in exports by 2023.

Trade representatives including those from the Turkish Exporters¡¯ Assembly (TIM) - who presented at the same London event - stressed the need to prioritize R&D and innovation as well as creating new trademarks and design across the nation¡¯s industrial sectors - to reach a greater global scale.

The country, which has a population of some 77 million stretches from south-eastern Europe to western Asia, has even created a new export brand or logo, which was launched by President Recep Tayyip Erdoan at a TIM event last September. The new logo, which is turquoise in colour and curved, is accompanied by the slogan ¡®Discover The Potential¡¯ and replaced the ¡®Made-in-Turkey¡¯ slogan.

The potential, however, might be looking a tad pressured right now though and the markets did speak volumes in the wake of the election. So, what do market commentators and experts think in respect of the currency and the stock market outlook? It makes for sobering reading and contrasts somewhat with BIST¡¯s bullish recent road shows.

Gary Greenberg, head of Hermes Investment Management¡¯s Emerging Markets and lead portfolio manager in London, points out: ¡°The Turkish Lira is weak because few have confidence in the macro-economic management of the country. The economy is exposed to oil, but the current account deficit remains stubbornly high despite the fall in the price

¡°Economic growth remains weak. But inflation - due in part to the falling lira - is stubbornly high,¡± adds Greenberg at Hermes, which as of 31 March 2015 managed 30.1bn and advises on over 124.3bn through Hermes EOS, its stewardship team. ¡°The President [Erdoan] rails against a mythical ¡®interest rate lobby¡¯ (code for the West), that calls for monetary orthodoxy. He doubts that higher real interest rates are the appropriate measure for high inflation. And, he sees conspiracy all around.¡±

That said, Turkey is home to many competitive and well run companies, with solid businesses serving both the domestic and export (mainly Eurozone) markets. Indeed, glancing through 2014¡¯s FT Europe 500, which lists the biggest European companies by market capitalization, thirteen Turkish companies featured with a combined market capitalization of $128,119.6bn.

Ranked 18th out of 27th countries in Europe in the FT¡¯s findings - behind Finland and ahead of Poland and Austria - Turkish representation included banks in the shape of Akbank, which has ranked as the ¡®The Most Valuable Baking Brand in Turkey¡¯ according to the ¡®Brand Finance - Banking 500, 2014 report, as well as Turkiye Garanti Bankasi and Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi. In the telecoms sector Turkcell and Turk Telekomunikasyon made it on the list.

But the Turkish equity market is according to Greenberg ¡°cheap compared the rest of emerging markets¡±. And, it¡¯s nearly always at a discount although at a bigger one than normal. ¡°Our country model, which is heavily weighted toward valuation, ranks Turkey as attractive,¡± Greenberg says.

On the plus side for Borsa Istanbul it was ranked second among world exchanges in terms of share turnover velocity as of June 2013 and according to the World Federation of Exchanges it was the seventh highest ranked exchange globally in terms of equity market value in emerging markets at 2013 year end - ahead of Johannesburg Stock Exchange, Bursa Malaysia and BSE India.

The signing by the Turkish exchange of a strategic partnership with Nasdaq OMX two years ago - to obtain state-of-the-art technology for trading equities and derivatives ¨C should stand it in good stead. And, no doubt by BIST enabling data vendors since the start of this year to have access to Istanbul's market data offering via Equinix's LD5 datacentre in Slough on the outskirts of London will help. Specifically, a fibre-optic network connectivity to BIST is a maximum delay of 50 msec (roundtrip max. 100 msec), which is fast.

Commenting just a few days prior to the general election Greenberg noted: ¡°We don¡¯t think the upcoming election will be a major market event, in that we think the voters will give Erdoan another term although not enough power to change the constitution without making a deal with other parties, like the Kurds [pro-Kurdish HDP party]. The current uncertainty will likely be replaced with greater political stability.¡±

Whether that is a good thing or not will depend on the ¡°enunciation of a sensible monetary policy¡±. But as Greenberg says unfortunately this has not been in evidence of late.

Richard De Meo, managing director of Foenix Partners, a corporate foreign exchange (FX) firm in London offering FX products and risk management services, says: ¡°Since Sunday¡¯s election result, financial markets have spoken in the form of the lira hitting new lows [overnight]. The fears of authoritarian rule by Erdoan damaging autonomy for the central bank has proven the lesser of two evils in the context of heavy uncertainty caused by the unsettling prospect of a weak coalition.¡±

He adds: ¡°Suggestions pointing to a victory for democratic principles gloss over the impact that the election result will have on the Turkish economy, which has some tough times ahead. It is impossible to see this as the end of the sell-off, with mounting inflationary pressures to raise interest rates now entering the debate.¡±

NN Investment Partners (formerly ING Investment Management) in The Netherlands, which manages around 203bn (US$218bn) in assets for institutions and individual investors globally (as at 31 March 2015), has been underweight and had a negative bias towards the Turkish market for the past few quarters.

Maarten-Jan Bakkum, Senior Strategist multi-asset (emerging market) specialist at NN Investment Partners in The Hague, says: ¡°Relative to other emerging markets Turkey is way below [others] and one of the biggest underweights we currently have.¡± He adds that presently from an investment perspective there is ¡°little reason¡± to like Turkey. Strong stuff.

The currency is also in a little bit of a trap right now and ¡°particularly vulnerable¡± says Bakkum, who covers global emerging markets from China to Chile and from South Africa to Turkey. But such currency weakness and pressure is also a wider problem for many emerging markets.

While NN as an investment house is ¡°cautious overall¡± on emerging markets, Bakkum adds a caveat saying: ¡°Turkey is like the extreme emerging market almost and currently we don¡¯t recommend investors being exposed there.¡±

Besides the election risk that faced Turkey there are also a number of other challenging problems for the country. It has a large current account deficit (-US$45.5bn (-4.6% of 2015 GDP) for latest 12 months to this March), the banking system needs a significant amount of foreign capital to fund itself, it¡¯s ¡°very sensitive¡± to US interest rate expectations, and it exhibits structurally high inflation that the authorities still have not managed to bring that down and needs to be dealt with.

The only positive has been the low oil price, which helps the country reduce its current account deficit. But as Bakkum reflects this could have had a ¡°slightly more positive¡± benefit.

On Turkish equities, the Dutchman says: ¡°They¡¯re not especially cheap, although it rather depends on how one looks at it. But if one looks at relative valuation of Turkey versus emerging markets it¡¯s not particularly cheap. That said, Turkey is always a bit of a cheaper market. But fundamentally one has to compare it to its own history.¡±

Amid coalition negotiations now taking place to form a government after the first hung parliament result in Turkey since 1999, one wonders how much further the Lira and the stockmarket might drop. The country certainly has potential but faces a number of challenging issues. Unless a contrarian investor, buyer beware.