Giant retailer Walmart started buying pre-owned games earlier this year, and now it's ready to sell them.

The retailer announced today that it has started selling "certified, pre-owned" games in 1,700 of its more than 3,600 stores across the US. Secondhand games were already available to buy through Walmart's website.

With the move, Walmart is pushing into GameStop's territory. But GameStop isn't worried. In fact, the retailer says Walmart's move could actually be a boon for GameStop overall.

"Target, Walmart, Best Buy, Amazon, they've all tried or are trying used games," GameStop president Tony Bartel told Bloomberg. "Frankly, when someone comes it helps us, because it raises awareness that you can turn in video games, and we have the lion's share of the market."

Bartel went on to say that setting the buy and sell prices for used games is not a simple task. If Walmart gets its wrong, the retailer could be stuck with inventory, he said.

Another differentiating factor regarding how GameStop and Walmart conduct their pre-owned business is that GameStop operates its own refurbishment center, while Walmart contracts this out to a third-party. GameStop says operating its business in this way has been one of the main reasons it has been able to remain king of the used game category for a long time.

Next week will be a busy one for Wal-Mart as it relates to gaming. In addition to its used game plans, the retailer has announced a special promotion around Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare. The retailer is throwing midnight launch parties at locations nationwide, and you'll be able to buy the Day Zero edition of the game on November 3 without a previous preorder.

The midnight launch events begin at 10 PM local time on Sunday, November 2 at more than 2,800 stores across the US. In the two hours leading up to launch, attendees can participate in Advanced Warfare tournaments and win Call of Duty posters and patches.

In addition, on November 3 and November 4, Walmart will offer 50 percent bonus trade-in credit for any game when you also buy Advanced Warfare. If you're in the market for a new console, you can also score double trade-in value when applying your trade to the purchase of a new PlayStation 4. This deal does not apply to the Xbox One.

Finally, if you buy specially marked packs of Mountain Dew, Diet Mountain Dew, and Doritos, you'll receive a special exoskeleton to use in Advanced Warfare. For more on Advanced Warfare, check out GameSpot's previous coverage.