Click here to get on our news & bulletins mailing list ...

 But before you do so, please read this note. AB

EDITOR'S NOTE: Unless otherwise noted, historical items appear courtesy of longtime Nevada reporter Dennis Myers' Poor D highlighted in blue are of particular interest to labor. Copyright  2007 Dennis Myers.]]

in Hong Kong, the Union Jack was lowered for the last time over Government House as Britain prepared to hand the colony back to China after ruling it for 156 years. 



the shuttle Atlantis and the Russian space station Mir docked, forming the largest man-made satellite ever to orbit the Earth. 



the Treaty of Versailles was signed in France, ending World War I. 



UPDATE: June 27, 2007, 3:29 p.m. PDT, 22:27 CUT/SMT/SUT  The Reno City Council this afternoon listened to Building Trades Council criticisms of Cabela's contractors and voted unanimously to postpone action on STAR Bond tax subsidies for the west Reno retail construction project. Councilmembers were concerned about union complaints of illegally operating contractors to the state contractors board and questions about compliance with building codes and regulations. The council meeting will be rebroadcast in its entirety on Sierra Nevada Community Access Television (SNCAT), Reno-Sparks-Washoe County Charter cable channel 13. (1st Replay: Thursday, June 28, at 10:00 a.m.; 2nd Replay: Sunday, July 1, 10:00 a.m.)



President Truman ordered the Air Force and Navy into the Korean War following a call from the United Nations Security Council for member nations to help South Korea repel an invasion from the North.

President Kennedy visited West Berlin, where he made his famous declaration: "Ich bin ein Berliner" ("I am a Berliner"). 



Francisco Pizarro was assassinated in Lima, Peru; in 1794, in the Battle of Fleuris in Belgium during the War of the First Coalition (a war by neighboring nations to try to stop the French Revolution), J. M. M. Coutelle piloted the French reconnaissance balloon l'Entreprenant, marking the first military use of an aircraft that had decisive influence on the outcome of the battle; in 1844, Julia Gardiner and Acting President John Tyler were married in New York City; in 1870, the first section of the Atlantic City Boardwalk opened along the New Jersey beach; Illinois Governor John Peter Altgeld announced that, because of fabricated testimony and bias on the part of trial judge Elbert Gary, he would pardon the anarchists convicted in the Haymarket Square bombing in Chicago in 1886, an unpopular action that made Altgeld a political pariah for a time, prevented his advancement to the U.S. senate, won him immortality in Vachel Lindsay's verse The Eagle That Is Forgotten and a mention in Profiles in Courage (see below) ; U.S. railway workers went out on strike in sympathy with Pullman workers ; in 1903, veteran Reno teacher Mary Doten, who after teaching for fourteen years was forced to leave the state for her health, returned to the city in improved condition; at the Boise trial of labor leader William Haywood in the case of the assassination of Idaho Governor Frank Steunenberg, miner William Davis of Goldfield, Nevada, took the stand for the defense and contradicted the testimony of chief prosecution witness Harry Orchard ; in 1916, the Cleveland Indians became the first big league team to put numbers on player uniforms, though the innovation was later abandoned; in 1924, after eight years of occupation, American troops left the Dominican Republic; in 1933, Washoe County commissioners decided to try to tap federal tribal boatbuilding funds to build a hard surface highway to Pyramid Lake; in 1939, Los Angeles Power and Light announced plans to build an office building in Boulder City; in 1946, Yoshia Kamecka, interpreter at a Japanese prisoner of war camp, was convicted of war crimes charges in a case in which the testimony of Vincent Owen of Las Vegas played a part; in 1952, in a state-by-state rundown of the race for the Republican presidential nomination, the Associated Press reported that Taft was leading Eisenhower in Nevada by seven delegate votes to two; in 1958, Nevada Governor Charles Russell held a meeting in the capital to plan for keeping the government functioning in the event of atomic attack; in 1964, the soundtrack album of A Hard Day's Night was released in the U.S. by United Artists, minus five Beatles songs that were in the British version released by Parlophone on July 10 (the U.S. version, however, had instrumentals by George Martin that the British version lacked); in 1992, Las Vegas' Tailhook scandal claimed Navy Secretary Lawrence Garrett, who resigned; in 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned state laws outlawing sex by gays. 

 

 He knew the cost to him; he had just come to the governorship of his state, and to the leadership of his party, after its thirty years of defeat, and he realized what powerful interests would be frightened and offended if he were to turn three forgotten men out of prison; he understood how partisanship would turn the action to its advantage. It mattered not that most of the thoughtful men in Illinois would tell you that the "anarchists" had been improperly convicted, that they were not only entirely innocent of the murder of which they had been accused, but were not even anarchists.

 

 And so, one morning in June, very early, I was called to the governor's office, and told to make out pardons for Fielden, Neebe, and Schwab. I took them over to the governor's office. I was admitted to his private room, and there he sat, at his great flat desk. The only other person in the room was Dreier, a Chicago banker, who had never wearied, it seems, in his efforts to have these men pardoned.

 

 The Governor took the big sheets of imitation parchment, glanced over them, signed his name to each, laid down the pen, and handed the papers across the table to Dreier. The banker took them, and began to say something. But he only got as far as "Governor, I hardly" when he broke down and wept.

 

 I saw the Governor as I was walking to the Capitol the next morning. The Governor was riding his horse  he was a gallant horseman  and he bowed and smiled that faint, wan smile of his, and drew up to the curb a moment. I said: "Well, the storm will break now."

 

 "Oh, yes," he replied, with a not wholly convincing air of throwing off a care, "I was prepared for that. It was merely doing right." I said something to him then to express my satisfaction in the great deed that was to be so willfully, recklessly, and cruelly misunderstood. I did not say all I might have said, for I felt that my opinions could mean so little to him. I have wished since that I had said more, said something that could perhaps have made a great burden a little easier for that brave and tortured soul. But he rode away with that wan, persistent smile. And the storm did break, and the abuse it rained upon him broke his heart.

the Lutheran Church published the Book of Concord; in 1876, General George Custer attacked a Sioux village at Little Big Horn, unaware that the village contained four warriors for every one of his calvarymen; in 1887, Nevada teacher, Lincoln County school board member and president, and state legislator Hazel Baker Denton was born in Monroe, Utah; in 1903, the Nevada Board of Regents took several actions on the Girls Cottage, denied use of the University Hospital to any except students, accepted a bid for granite coping for the stone wall at the entrance to the campus, and appointed Robert Lewers to be acting President until September 1, 1903; in 1917, a businessperson told the Churchill County Liquor Control Board he was having trouble getting enough workers because of drunkenness, so the board shut down saloons between 11 at night and 7 in the morning; in 1927, the month-long Transcontinental Highways Exposition opened in Reno, Nevada (two features of the expo lasted long after the fair left  Idlewild Park, which was the grounds of the fair, and an arch over Reno's main street); in 1935, Joe Louis, described by the newspapers as the "dark dynamiter", beat Primo Carnera (the "man mountain") in Madison Square Garden when the referee stopped the fight in the sixth round; in 1940, after 23 years, an iron flagpole erected on top of Green Mountain near Tonopah when the U.S. entered the world war toppled over under the force of high winds; in 1940, a news report said the chamber of commerce in Kingman, Arizona, was seeking establishment of a U.S. Army Air base near Boulder Dam; in 1946, Arthur Detrie, totally disabled veteran of the Burma/India theatre of World War Two, was ordered by Las Vegas Judge A.S. Henderson in the fourth trial of his divorce case to pay $100 a month in alimony and $50 a month in child support (his monthly disability payment was $196.87); in 1953, the Sparks Tribune called for federal removal of reefs in the Truckee River (where the river leaves the Truckee Meadows and enters the canyon east of Sparks) because the reefs were causing flooding of ranches at the mouth of the canyon (a second editorial endorsed the 18-year-old vote); in 1962, in Engel vs. Vitale, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled against recitation in schools of a government prayer; in 1967, on a television program originating from all over the world and broadcast by satellite, England offered The Beatles from Abbey Road Studios, who introduced All You Need Is Love to two hundred million viewers worldwide, now considered a benchmark of the summer of love; in 1970, Thomas Joseph Davis of Las Vegas died in Hua Nghia province, Vietnam (panel 09w/row 090 of the Vietnam wall); in 2001, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that misconduct by State of Nevada officers on tribal land is not subject to the jurisdiction of tribal courts; in 2003, Nevada legislators returned to Carson City for a second special session of the legislature in a last ditch effort to end the budget deadlock before the fiscal year ended.



the Air Force released a report on the so-called "Roswell Incident," suggesting the alien bodies witnesses reported seeing in 1947 were actually life-sized dummies.

On this date in 1807, former vice president Aaron Burr was indicted for treason (he was found not guilty); in 1844, Mayor Joseph Smith of Nauvoo, Illinois, the Mormon founder, ordered the suppression of church rebels (which sparked violence, which in turn prompted Smith to call out the town militia and destroy a local newspaper's printing press, for which state officials arrested him and his brother and jailed them in Carthage where they were assassinated by a mob); in 1893, the U.S. established a post office at Los Vegas, Nevada (the spelling is correct, as used by postal officials until 1903).; in 1912, Congress enacted legislation assigning to itself the authority to determine the exact proportions of features of the U.S. flag, bringing to an end the long era of the public being able to design the arrangement of stars for themselves; after a worker in a Reno cigar factory was heard making comments critical of the world war, he was arrested for sedition on a warrant issued by U.S. Attorney William Woodburn [EDITOR'S NOTE: A cigar maker's union operated in Reno at the time.] ; in 1924, the Democratic National Convention began in Madison Square Garden and quickly developed into a 16-day deadlocked convention whose polarization and divisions and dominance by the Ku Klux Klan were broadcast on radio through 103 ballots for the presidential nomination, destroying the party's prospects in an otherwise promising year (the refusal of U.S. Senator Oscar Underwood to accept the presidential nomination under Klan sponsorship was dramatized in the 1964 television series Profiles in Courage, based on the John Kennedy book); in 1929, James Seastrand, later mayor of North Las Vegas, was born in American Fork, Utah; in 1939, the film crew of Grantland Rice's Sportlight (a short subject shown in movie theatres) arrived in Boulder City to film a segment; in 1939, 'Miss Boulder Dam" Bettina Norberg, who was a resident of Burlingame, California, and had never actually seen the structure whose name she bore, arrived in Nevada to tour the dam; in 1940, the Las Vegas Evening Review Journal published a letter and copy of a telegram from U.S. Senator Key Pittman of Nevada, chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, in which Pittman said that because of belligerent U.S. policies, he would not vote for war if a U.S. battleship was lost and that three fourths of Congress felt the same way (the telegram was a reply to a Nevada couple; see below); in 1942, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes approved an $18,966,392 contract for construction of the Bullshead dam and power house on the Colorado River between Arizona and Nevada; in 1944, President Roosevelt signed the Servicemen's Readjustment Act, also known as the GI bill of rights; in 1962, Ladeo Corporation advertised availability of "first come - first served" reservations for a 500 unit trailer park then under construction in Cactus Springs, Nevada, near Mercury; in 1971, Daniels and Bell became the first known African American-owned firm to gain a seat on the New York Stock Exchange (co-owner Travers Bell's son Gregory Bell has written a history of African-Americans on Wall Street titled In The Black); in 1978, Russ McDonald, former Washoe County manager, director of the Nevada Legislative Counsel Bureau, and author of the 1978-80 tax cutting Ballot Question 6 (the Nevada version of California's Proposition 13), was honored at a testimonial dinner in Reno; in 1995, the first game of the Major Indoor Soccer League was played at UNLV between Sacramento and Las Vegas; in 2003, historian Beverly Mobley gave a lecture at the Nevada State Museum on the history of the Stewart Indian School; in 2003, Philip Deale, owner of Philip's Supper Club who was once sued by other restaurant owners for paying cab drivers $3 to refer passengers to his club, died in Las Vegas; in 2003, the Nevada Trial Lawyers Association gave a testimonial dinner for former state district judge Jerry Whitehead, who was forced off the bench by federal prosecutors in 1995. 

 

 Telegram from U.S. Senator Key Pittman to Tim and Lulu Harnedy of Las Vegas (published 6-24-1940): I am today in receipt of the following telegram from you: "Your very discourteous remarks directed at Col. Lindbergh, a real patriot and hero, are a reflection on the intelligence of the people of the State of Nevada."

 

 I attempted to be courteous to Col Lindbergh in my analysis of the position he took in his speech. I fully admitted his courage and his patriotism. I am surprised that you do not recognize not only his discourtesy but his attack upon the patriotism of the president of the United States. His statement in his speech that "We must have a nation ready to give whatever is required for its future welfare, and leaders who are more interested in their country than in their own advancement" is a very serious and absolutely unjustifiable attack. I unhesitatingly assert that there is no intelligent, unprejudiced person in the United States who doubts the patriotism of the president or that he would in every case place the welfare of the United States, particularly in this great emergency, over his personal advancement. The whole tenet of Col. Lindbergh's speech clearly discloses that his subject is political; that he is attempting through arousing a false fear that the president is seeking to lead us into war to defeat the president at the coming election and to defeat the other leaders in his administration who are supporters of the president.

 

 It is well known that Mr. Lindbergh, since his recent return to the United States after an absence of several years in Great Britain, has been advising with republican politicians, some of whom lost their positions with the United States government through the defeat of the republican party in 1932 by an overwhelming vote of the people of this country. The president has clearly shown that he intends to take national defense out of politics. That alone would demonstrate to an unprejudiced person that he thinks more of the welfare of his country than he does of his own political advancement... 



the Senate joined the House in overriding President Truman's veto of the Taft-Hartley Act.

UPDATE: June 22, 2007, 5:15 p.m. PDT, 00:15 CUT/SMT/SUT  In television interviews, NALC President Bill Young announced Reno's dubious distinction: the first instance in the country of which the union is aware of existing postal jobs being given to private contractors. A Utah company will take over the local routes formerly serviced by 10 postal workers.

during World War II, Adolf Hitler gained a stunning victory as France was forced to sign an armistice eight days after German forces overran Paris.

three civil rights workers disappeared in Philadelphia, Miss. Their bodies were found buried in an earthen dam six weeks later. Eight members of the Ku Klux Klan went to prison on federal conspiracy charges; none served more than six years

MISSING MINER: Midas tunnel swallows Newmont worker. On its 5:30 p.m. newscast today, Reno's KOLO TV-8 news reported that the miner remains missing and that a medevac helicopter is standing by. Stay tuned.

boxer Muhammad Ali was convicted in Houston of violating Selective Service laws by refusing to be drafted. The conviction was later overturned by the Supreme Court.

the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was approved after surviving an 83-day filibuster in the United States Senate.

On this date in 1754, delegates from most of the northern British colonies and representatives from the Six Iroquois Nations met in Albany in a forerunner of the continental congresses and considered a plan of union offered by Benjamin Franklin of Pennsylvania that was derived from the governing practices of the Iroquois Confederacy (Franklin's Iroquois plan was not adopted in Albany but its elements later became a part of the U.S. Constitution) ; slavery was outlawed in the Territory of Nevada and other U.S. territories ; two months after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, African-Americans in Texas were told, incorrectly, that the proclamation had freed the slaves, the day becoming known among blacks as Juneteenth ; the first of several meetings called to organize to support "equal rights before the Law to all the Colored Citizens of the State of Nevada" was held in Virginia City ; in 1918, there was hope that the German near-monopoly on potash (a form of potassium carbonate used in the manufacture of glass and soap and as a fertilizer) might be broken by the discovery of a potash field in Dixie Valley, Nevada; in 1918, northern Nevadans were surprised to learn that an arbitration conference in a decade-old Truckee River water rights case had been scheduled by federal officials  in Denver, and the Churchill County Standard compared the case to Jarndyce vs. Jarndyce in Bleak House (Dickens: "The scarecrow of a suit has, in course of time, become so complicated, that no man alive knows what it means. The parties to it understand it least; but it has been observed that no two Chancery lawyers can talk about it for five minutes, without coming to a total disagreement as to all the premises. Innumerable children have been born into the cause; innumerable young people have married into it; innumerable old people have died out of it. Scores of persons have deliriously found themselves made parties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, without knowing how or why; whole families have inherited legendary hatreds with the suit."); in 1936, Max Schmeling, heavyweight champion from 1930 to '32, came back as a ten to one underdog to beat Joe Louis for the championship, a victory German Nazi officials portrayed as a triumph of racial supremacy; in 1939, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee voted to reject President Roosevelt's nomination of William Boyle as U.S. Attorney for Nevada, which Nevada's Senator Key Pittman had championed but which its other senator, Pat McCarran, had called "personally offensive to me" because he considered the nomination retribution for McCarran's opposition to FDR's court packing plan; in 1962, a Long Beach company, Kit Manufacturing, was hired to construct bachelor quarters at Mercury, Nevada, for the Atomic Energy Commission; in 1962, on the hottest day of the year, North Las Vegas' water system went dry and at the Las Vegas convention center a dozen spouses of conventioneers collapsed from heat prostration; in 1967, Jack Edward Cossins of Henderson, Nevada, died in Gia Dinh Province, Vietnam (panel 22e/row 0100 of the Vietnam wall); in 1970, Pvt. Mark Crouse of Yerington, Nevada, was wounded in action in Cambodia with a foot injury and shrapnel in the back and arm; in 1971, a festival called Indiana Black Expo debuted at the Indiana state fairgrounds, highlighting the cultural, educational and entertainment contributions of black Hoosiers (the event drew Ralph Abernathy, Jesse Jackson, Bill Russell and John Mackey); in 1982 at Lake Tahoe, Steve Miller began a tour to promote his album Abracadabra; in 1997, when Julia Roberts was introduced on Letterman, the band played Julia from the white album (the song is about John Lennon's mother); in 1999, high school coach Jim Morris tried out for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays and his fast ball was clocked at 98 miles an hour, resulting in his being signed and sent to Devil Ray teams (Orlando and Durham) and finally making a major league debut for Tampa Bay on September 18, 1999, as the oldest rookie in 40 years, events dramatized in the film The Rookie with Dennis Quaid playing Morris; in 2002, U.S. Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama disclosed information he received as a member of the Select Committee on Intelligence to Fox Network reporter Carl Cameron, but although a grand jury was empaneled on the matter, the Bush administration chose not to prosecute; in 2004, a marker was dedicated in Virginia City commemorating African-Americans on the Comstock near the site of the Boston Saloon, an African-American owned business of the 1860s that was the subject of a 1999 dig by archeologist Kelly Dixon. 

 

 There were, however, wise and far-seeing men in the Colonies  too many to mention  who spoke out against test oaths and all the philosophy of intolerance behind them. One of these, it so happens, was George Calvert (the first Lord Baltimore), who took a most important part in the original establishment of the Colony of Maryland. He was a Catholic and had, for this reason, felt compelled by his conscience to refuse to take the Oath of Supremacy in England at the cost of resigning from high governmental office. He again refused to take that oath when it was demanded by the Council of the Colony of Virginia, and as a result he was denied settlement in that Colony. A recent historian of the early period of Maryland's life has said that it was Calvert's hope and purpose to establish in Maryland a colonial government free from the religious persecutions he had known  one "securely beyond the reach of oath." When our Constitution was adopted, the desire to put the people "securely beyond the reach" of religious test oaths brought about the inclusion in Article VI of that document of a provision that "no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States." Article VI supports the accuracy of our observation in Girouard v. United States that "[t]he test oath is abhorrent to our tradition." Not satisfied, however, with Article VI and other guarantees in the original Constitution, the First Congress proposed and the States very shortly thereafter adopted our Bill of Rights, including the First Amendment. That Amendment broke new constitutional ground in the protection it sought to afford to freedom of religion, speech, press, petition and assembly. Since prior cases in this Court have thoroughly explored and documented the history behind the First Amendment, the reasons for it, and the scope of the religious freedom it protects, we need not cover that ground again. What was said in our prior cases we think controls our decision here...We repeat and again reaffirm that neither a State nor the Federal Government can constitutionally force a person "to profess a belief or disbelief in any religion." Neither can constitutionally pass laws or impose requirements which aid all religions as against non-believers, and neither can aid those religions based on a belief in the existence of God as against those religions founded on different beliefs.

EDITOR'S NOTE: Unless otherwise noted, historical items appear courtesy of longtime Nevada reporter Dennis Myers' Poor D highlighted in blue are of particular interest to labor. Copyright  2007 Dennis Myers.]]

the United Nations Commission on Human Rights adopted its International Declaration of Human Rights. 



Amelia Earhart embarked on the first trans-Atlantic flight by a woman. She flew from Newfoundland to Wales in about 21 hours.

President Roosevelt opened his New Deal recovery program, signing bank, rail, and industry bills and initiating farm aid.

more than 1,000 people died when fire erupted aboard the steamboat General Slocum in New York City's East River.

Argentine forces surrendered to British troops on the disputed Falkland Islands.

the Supreme Court issued its landmark Miranda vs. Arizona decision, ruling that criminal suspects must be informed of their constitutional rights prior to questioning by police.

the Phillippines declared independence from Spain (only to see the United States replace Spain as Phillippine occupiers and oppressors); in 1918, Vera Haywood, the new teacher at the school in tiny Ocala, Nevada, was out of a job because the school was shut down after local school board president Daniel Besse was arrested for running supplies to fugitive Paul Walters, accused of murdering Churchill County Sheriff Mark Wildes; in 1918, a group of oil prospectors who created a sensation by pulling their huge drill through Fallon were in the eastern Churchill County gold field being mined by the Nevada Potash Syndicate to see if the same land was a likely oil field; the Mason Valley Mines Company smelter at Thompson in Lyon County accepted a woman, Lucille Gallivan, as an apprentice machinis t; in 1918, the wartime Ely Council of Defense prohibited solicitation of any kind unless approved by the ECD; the Churchill County Standard published In Flanders Fields, the memorable poem written by physician John McCrae to vent his anguish after seeing a good friend die a gruesome death in the second battle of Ypres (see below) ; in 1937, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge William Palmer annulled the Nevada marriage of Texas musician William Graham and his cousin Annette Graham; in 1944, a war bond rally was held at the War Department Theatre at the Reno Army Air Base; in 1947, seventeen days after former Vice-President Henry Wallace said he might run against President Truman on a third party line, the House UnAmerican Activities Committee said it had opened an investigation of Wallace; in 1947, directors of the Reno Chamber of Commerce seeking contributions to a $150,000 publicity fund were suprised to receive $500 from the chamber of commerce in  Las Vegas; in 1957, Radio Hanoi called on Britain and the Soviet Union, as joint chairs of the 1954 Geneva conference on Indochina, to crack down on U.S. violations of the Geneva agreement; African-American leader Medgar Evers was assassinated in Jackson, Mississippi, shot from hiding by white supremacist Byron de la Beckwith ; in 1963, after refusing to allow an opposing assemblymember to speak, the Nevada Assembly approved a measure calling for a federal constitutional convention to overturn U.S. Supreme Court decisions ordering state legislatures to apportion their members on the basis of population (which, in Nevada's case, restored the original procedure in the 1864 Nevada Constitution); in 1963, Washoe County Assemblymember Chet Christiansen resigned to take office as mayor of Sparks and Don Mello was appointed to replace him in the legislature; in 1969, it was announced in London that Prime Minister Harold Wilson had named the four Beatles to receive the MBE, the Membership of the most excellent order of the British Empire, provoking other MBEs to return theirs to the government ("I thought you had to drive tanks and win wars to get the MBE," said John Lennon, who would later return his to protest the British government's support of the U.S. war against Vietnam); in 1971, the Nevada Oil and Gas Conservation Commission reported that the oil field at Eagle Springs had produced 2,451,376 barrels; in 1973, brothel owner Joe Conforte was deeply offended he called it a "dirty deal"  that University of Nevada boosters refused his $400 purchase of tickets to a fund raising dinner.



the United States and the Soviet Union signed a lend lease agreement to aid the Soviet war effort in World War II.

UPDATE: June 10, 2007, 3:58 a.m. PDT, 10:58 CUT/GMT/SUT  the Six-Day War ended as Israel and Syria agreed to observe a United Nations-mediated cease-fire. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

a statue of Comstock mining tycoon John Mackay sculpted by Gutzon Borglum was dedicated on the University of Nevada campus in Reno; in 1911, a root-attacking parasite was threatening Churchill County's new sugar beet industry; in 1925, jazz critic, civil libertarian and author (Free Speech for Me and Not for Thee/How the American Left and Right Relentlessly Censor Each Other) Nat Hentoff was born in Boston; in 1942, after the assassination of deputy SS chief Reidnhard Heydrich by Czech partisans in occupied Czechoslovakia, Hitler personally selected the little town of Lidice for reprisal  the occupants of the town were gathered together, men and women were split into groups and sent to the death camps, the children were taken away to be educated, and the town was bulldozed, buildings torn down or exploded, the land leveled and grass planted over the former site of Lidice; in 1943, after several months of going from place to place (including Reno) looking for a legal way to accomplish a proxy marriage, Jeanne Scroggy of Sacramento succeeded in Denver in marrying Lt. Izzy Tamres in north Africa, where he was stationed with U.S. forces; in 1944, Bertha Raffetto, composer of Home Means Nevada, was the keynote speaker at the Nevada Republican Convention; an eleven-day strike by Las Vegas Carpenters Local 780 ended when members voted for a second proposed agreement with the Associated General Contractors ; in 1960, Salt Lake City's Oakland Construction Company won a $1,352,850 contract for construction at the Nevada atomic test site; above-ground atomic testing ended at the Nevada test site, never to resume, when President Kennedy at American University pledged the U.S. not "to conduct nuclear tests in the atmosphere so long as other states do not do so; we will not be the first to resume," a promise that led to a breakthrough in test ban negotiations and resulted in an agreement 45 days later ; a Republican/southern Democratic filibuster against the 1964 Civil Rights Act ended after 57 days with a fourteen hour speech by U.S. Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia ; in 1966, Parlophone released the Beatles single Paperback Writer b/w Rain in Britain, eleven days after their U.S. release (Rain was the first instance of a use of tape being run backwards as part of the recording, in this case of John's voice); at least 25 protestors, and possibly many more, were killed in the Corpus Cristi Massacre, part of Mexico's "dirty war" against pro-democracy activists in which thousands murdered and others were "disappeared" (33 years later, in 2004, former president Luis Echeverria, who was interior minister at the time of the killings, and the attorney general of Mexico were indicted for genocide in the massacre, but arrest warrants were quashed by a judge) ; in 1997, Sunset Station Casino opened in Las Vegas.

Army counsel Joseph N. Welch confronted Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy, R-Wisc., during the Senate-Army Hearings over McCarthy's attack on a member of Welch's law firm, Frederick G. Fisher. Said Welch: "Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency?" [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

authorities announced the capture in London of James Earl Ray, the suspected assassin of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

the sovereign state of Vatican City came into existence as copies of the Lateran Treaty were exchanged in Rome. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

the national convention of the Republican Party  temporarily renamed the Union Party to make it more palatable to Democrats  renominated Abraham Lincoln for president; in 1871, a Virginia City businessperson hoisted a Confederate flag over his store on A Street in Virginia City, but eventually was persuaded to remove it to avert a violent reaction; New Orleans Creole Homer Plessy was arrested for violating the state Separate Car Act by seating himself in a railroad car restricted to whites only, giving his name to the infamous U.S. Supreme Court case that upheld segregated facilities, Plessy vs. Ferguson ; in 1894, the Nevada Central Railroad was considering extending the line to Kennedy, a mining camp northeast of Lovelock; in 1927, Nevada political boss George Wingfield filed for a divorce from his wife on grounds of cruelty after several years of separation; in 1929, Premier Mussolini and Pope Pius XI signed the Lateran Treaty; in 1930, The New York Times, following the lead of the city's school board, began capitalizing the N in Negro; in 1936, a Druid's Dance was held in Reno's Lyon Building; in 1937, the Truckee River was bridged at Sierra Street in Reno for the first time as steel girders were laid across it as part of the construction of a concrete faced bridge; in 1952, the Nevada Board of Regents voted to grant honorary degrees to Herbert Hoover and Bernard Baruch; in 1954, the Nevada State Journal headlined "U.S. Intervention in Indochina War May Be Asked Within Next 30 Days"; in 1954, a group of nine, some of them associated with the Desert Inn (including Ruby Kolod and Moe Dalitz), filed an application for a new casino on the Boulder highway called the Showboat; in 1965, at a time when extrication from Vietnam was still possible, General William Westmoreland, commander of U.S. forces in Vietnam, informed the Joint Chiefs of information he withheld from the public: "In pressing their campaign, the Viet Cong are capable of mounting regimental-size operations in all four ARVN [Saigon regime] Corps areas, and at least battalion-sized attacks in virtually all provinces. Major attacks could occur also in other areas; the Viet Cong have shown that they are capable of concentrating in regimental strength with little or no warning. Whether or not the 304th Div is in, or moving toward SVN [south Vietnam], the DRV [Democratic Republic of Vietnam] has a doorstep capability to reinforce the VC with sizable forces. ARVN forces on the other hand are already experiencing difficulty in coping with this increased VC capability. Desertion rates are inordinately high. Battle losses have been higher than expected; in fact, four ARVN battalions have been rendered ineffective by VC action in the I and II Corps zones. Therefore, effective fighting strength of many infantry and ranger battalions is unacceptably low. As a result, ARVN troops are beginning to show signs of reluctance to assume the offensive and in some cases their steadfastness under fire is coming into doubt."; of East Ely, Nevada died in Quang Tin province, Vietnam (panel 23w, row 102 of the Vietnam wall) and Dale Earl Thompson of Henderson died in Quang Nam province (panel 23w, row 107) ; in 1969, Blind Faith gave a free concert in London's Hyde Park; in 1981, Israel bombed and destroyed a nuclear power plant in at Osiraq, Iraq, justifying the strike with a claim that the plant could be used to manufacture weapons of mass destruction (the U.S. voted in the United Nations to condemn the Israeli action as an act of terror).

the D-Day invasion of Europe took place during World War II as Allied forces stormed the beaches of Normandy, France. [New York Times/AP e-headlines] 



in Paris, by the decrees of Pope Gregory IX and King Louis, all copies of the Talmud were stolen from the Jews and burned and, in an irreparable loss to history, twenty four cartloads of Hebrew manuscripts were burned; Christina of Sweden, who opposed war and made her nation a mecca for learning and science known as the Athens of the north, abdicated her throne as queen to become a Catholic free thinker, but later tried to become queen of Naples and then Poland (she was portrayed by Greta Garbo in Queen Christina, which changed her abdication motive from a religious conversion to a desire to be a normal person and marry the man she loves) ; in 1859, an exploring party led by army topographical engineer James Simpson passed Carson Lake; for the first time, in Hamilton, Nevada, African-American residents voted in a municipal election ; in 1874, a town meeting was held in the Reno schoolhouse to make plans for Reno's U.S. centennial fourth of July; in 1878, workers and material were in readiness for the building of 31 miles of canal by the Truckee and Steamboat Springs Irrigating Canal Company; in 1911, debts of the closed Searchlight Bank in Clark County, in receivership for three years, were paid at 25.5 cents on the dollar; in 1933, the first drive- in theatre opened in Camden, New Jersey ("The whole family is welcome, regardless of how noisy the children are," said its developer Richard Hollingshead); novelist Richard Wright delivered a speech about World War Two entitled "Not My People's War", arguing that with white supremacists in charge of both the U.S. and Germany, there was no African-American stake (he changed his mind after Pearl Harbor) ; in 1944, Allied forces began to retake continental Europe with a successful landing at Normandy; it was business as usual away from Normandy: 1,795 Corfu Jews arrived in Greece on the way to Auschwitz, where all but 200 were gassed and the remainder were made slaves ; the morning after overwhelmingly voting to reject the terms of a settlement with the Associated General Contractors, members of Carpenters Local 1780 in Las Vegas continued their two week-old strike ; in 1955, Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Van Dong announced that his nation was ready to negotiate with Saigon for arrangements for elections required by the 1954 Geneva agreement (Saigon Prime Minister Ngo Dinh Diem waited a month and then repudiated the Geneva agreement); in 1963, Alaska Governor William Egan turned back the $300 honorarium due him for speaking at the University of Nevada commencement, specifying that it be used as a scholarship for a deserving Nevada student; in 1963, Nevada Assembly and Senate leaders rejected Governor Grant Sawyer's request that the lawmakers pull back a roughly worded resolution they had passed condemning Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall for proposed grazing fee increases, but some other legislators were reportedly trying to go around the leaders to do something about the "unstatesmanlike and undignified" resolution; in 1966, Robert Earle Garey of Las Vegas died in Quang Nam province, Vietnam (panel 7e/row 133 of the Vietnam wall); in 1971, April Kestell of Reno graduated first in her law school class at the University of San Francisco (which she attended on a full scholarship), winning the Bancroft/Whitney Prise and the Haley Award after editing the law review; , a geography professor who achieved immortality of a sort by cutting down a bristlecone pine in eastern Nevada (such pines are the second oldest living things on earth), died in Utah .

Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was shot and mortally wounded just after claiming victory in California's Democratic presidential primary. Gunman Sirhan Bishara Sirhan was immediately arrested. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Chinese army troops stormed Tiananmen Square in Beijing to crush the pro-democracy movement; hundreds  possibly thousands  of people died. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Glory to Old Washoe! The sage brush on all our hills, under the influence of the late rains, is becoming quite green. A couple of large droves of horses have already arrived from sterile California to graze upon this succulent vegetation now to be found in so great abundance throughout the Territory, and we hear that a drove of at least "three hundred thousand more is on the way". Glory to old Washoe! Should the showery weather continue, and the sage brush flourish accordingly, we shall soon have "cattle on a thousand hills," and billy-goats browsing on every mountain. 

 

 a train arrived in San Francisco three days and 11 hours after leaving New York; in 1892, the Sierra Club was incorporated; in Denver the Western Federation of Miners, which would become a powerful force in Nevada's Goldfield mining boom, adopted a resolution opposing an increase in the size of the nation's small standing army ; , daughter of the secretary of labor, addressed the National Women's Trade Union Leave and urged that women be taught to look for the union label on products they purchase, in preference to the use of boycotts ; in 1919, newly elected Las Vegas Mayor W.E. Ferron and new city commissioners held their first meeting; in a powerful speech in the U.S. Senate, James Reed of Missouri denounced unrestrained majority rule (see below) ; in 1927, Las Vegan Jackson Stocker, reported to have been a Union soldier at Antietam, Fredricksburg and Spottsylvania Court House, died at age 90; in 1931, in an old fashioned gunfight that followed a fist fight, Reno underworld figure and political boss William Graham and F.R. "Blackie" McCracken shot it out in a Reno speakeasy, with Graham finally killing McCracken; in 1939, in a radio debate, U.S. Representative Josh Lee of Oklahoma advocated his legislation to draft capital as well as people during wartime; Clark County's hopes of sending its first local to the "Miss America" pageant ended when "Miss Nevada" Sylvia Russell got married to another Bonanza Airlines steward and Renoite Bonnie Wilson assumed the title (Russell also lost her job, though her husband kept his  the airline prohibited marriage only for its female employees) ; in 1953, in New York, Kennecott announced it would develop an open pit copper mine in Nevada; the Nevada AFL/CIO held a carnival at the Washoe fair grounds for children from the state orphanage, Catholic Welfare Bureau, Stead air base, NAACP, YWCA and other groups ; the U.S. Department of Justice charged seventeen Las Vegas casinos and hotels, four unions and the Nevada Resort Association with discrimination against African-Americans employees ; in 1984 Bruce Springsteen's Born in the USA album was released; in 1989, Chinese troops charged into Tiananmen Square to stop the pro-democracy movement (no reliable death toll is available, which has led some to deny that any deaths occurred); in 2001, the Nevada Legislative session ended in the dead of night after the senate approved utility deregulation, a measure that blew up in the lawmakers' faces a year later. I am getting a little tired of hearing about the sacred rights of the majority; that this is a country ruled by the majority; and that the majority has the right to have its way. This is not a country ruled by the majority. This is not a country of majority rule. The Constitution of the United States was written, in large part, to prevent majority rule. The Declaration of Independence was an announcement that there are limitations upon majority rule.

 

 The rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness were declared in the Declaration to be inalienable rights. They could not be given away by the citizen himself. Much less could they be taken away by temporary agents, sitting in legislative bodies, holding a limited authority of brief duration.

 

 The Constitution itself is a direct limitation upon majority rule. "You shall not take property without due process of law," says the Constitution, and before we can take that safeguard away what must we do? We must obtain not a majority by this body, not a majority of the House of Representatives, but a two-thirds majority in each House concurring in a resolution, and that resolution must be approved by three fourths of the States. What about majority rule in connection with that proposition?

 

 The right to trial by jury can not be taken away by majority rule. The right for the habitation of the citizen to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures can not be taken away by majority rule. If it could have been so taken away, Volstead and his like would have invaded every home of America and fanaticism would have thrust its ugly face into every home of this land...Before you can trample upon certain rights of the American people you must have more than a majority, Sir, and I believe it to be true that there are certain rights which even by amending the Constitution of the United States, we can not take away from the citizens of the United States.

 

 Majority rule! Where is the logic or the reason to be found back of majority rule except in the mere necessity to dispatch business? The fact that a majority of 1 or 10 vote for a bill in the Senate is not a certification that the action is right. The majority has been wrong oftener than it has been right in all the course of time.

 

 The majority crucified Jesus Christ.

 The majority burned the Christians at the stake.

 The majority drove the Jews into exile and the ghetto.

 The majority established slavery. The majority set up innumerable gibbets.

 The majority chained to stakes and surrounded with circles of flame martyrs through all the ages of the world's history.

 The majority in China believe in a doctrine and follow a code of ethics different from ours. Either they are wrong or we are wrong.

 The majority in India follow a different code of ethics and have a different set of ideas than we, and they far outnumber us. Either they are wrong or we are wrong.

 The majority went down the pathway of the ages wearing gyves [shackles], which they voluntarily forged and fastened upon their arms; and when a minority arose headed by some brave soul, they hanged him upon a gibbet, they crucified him upon a cross, they pulled his limbs apart with horrible instruments of torture, and the majority stood there leering and jibing at the man who was the apostle of a better day.

 Majority rule without any limitation or curb upon the particular set of fools who happen to be placed for the moment in charge of the machinery of a government! 

 The majority said that Galileo must recant or that Galileo must go to prison.

 The majority cut off the ears of John Pym because he dared advocate the liberty of the press.

 The majority to the South of the Mason and Dixon line established the horrible thing called slavery, and the majority north of it did likewise, and only turned reformer when slavery ceased to be profitable to them.

 

 Majority rule!

during the flight of Gemini 4, astronaut Edward White became the first American to "walk" in space. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]

Queen Elizabeth II of Britain was crowned in Westminster Abbey, 16 months after the death of her father, King George VI. 



author-lecturer Helen Keller, who earned a college degree despite being blind and deaf most of her life, died in Westport, Conn. [New York Times/AP e-headlines]