A business brief is a document used to promote goods and services to customers and clients, increase profits, provide solutions to industry problems or increase consumer awareness of business activities. Business briefs are short, usually no more than one or two pages in length, but should contain enough information for your audience to make a purchase, sign up to attend a seminar, answer a survey or respond to any other call to action included at the end of the brief.

Write an opening statement that summarizes the purpose for writing the business brief. Provide an overview about a particular issue, a solution to a common problem or business goals you want to share with customers, clients or other business professionals.

Address your audience by describing the types of people who will benefit the most from the topic discussed in your opening statement. Focus on the benefits of the goods, services, solutions or business goals presented in your opening statement and how these benefits directly affect the lives of your audience. Provide reasons for why you believe your business has the goods, services or resources to help your audience.

Provide background information that supports the reasons why your business can help your audience. This information may include customer or client testimonials; reviews of products or services by consumer focus groups, independent product reviewers or the media; or information about previous business goals and how they helped your business grow.

Provide scientific or academic evidence that supports your claims. Include a brief list of recent statistics, industry studies, surveys and other documentation to create a sense of trust between you and the audience.

Provide instruction to your audience on how to proceed after reading your business brief. Provide a call to action, such as signing up to attend a seminar. Or encourage the audience to make a purchase.

Based in the Washington metro area, Jessica Jones has been a freelance writer since 2006, specializing in business topics. Her fiction has also been featured in publications such as "The Jamaican Observer Sunday Literary Supplement" and at websites including HackWriters. Jones earned a Master of Fine Arts in fiction writing from Lesley University.