Here's Guardian US economics editor Heidi Moore's primer on what to expect from Federal Reserve chairwoman Janet Yellen's 2pm press conference. 



This meeting will be the one where the Federal Reserve will have to prove it's connected to reality. Its forecasts have been relatively chipper - or at least optimistic - through five years of a slow recovery. Now the tides seem be turning, and the recovery looks threatened. As Lindsey Group analyst Peter Boockvar wrote to clients today, "their credibility is on the line if they ignore that the facts are now different." 



What facts? Here's what observers are watching. 



GDP: Expect the Fed to cut its estimates. The Fed's estimates for GDP - which measures the overall productivity of the economy - were on the high side for 2014, with expectations of 2.8% to 3% growth. The actual latest growth figure is far, far below that: it's -1%. Being off by a few percentage points is a big issue for the Fed's credibility -- though to be fair, it's used to being wrong. Still, look for the Fed to join the reality-based community by cutting its forecasts for economic growth. 



Unemployment: Expect the Fed to cut its estimates. The Fed most recently expected the unemployment rate to fall to the range of 6.1 to 6.3% by the end of the year. It's already there, as Boockvar notes, with two straight months of 6.3% unemployment. but it doesn't tell the whole story. The reason the unemployment rate is falling is because more people are becoming disillusioned and dropping out of the workforce. The best measure of that dropout trend is called the the labor force participation rate, and it measures how many working-age adults actually have jobs. At the moment, it's 62.8% - one of the lowest percentages in 30 years. 



 Inflation: Watch how the Fed interprets the data. After years of bafflement over why inflation remained so low, inflation is rising for consumers far faster than the Fed expected. The real-world measure of inflation, which is called the Consumer Price Index or CPI, is now at about 2% - far above the 1.7% that the Fed predicted in April. 



Housing: Watch how the Fed interprets the data. The housing market has been struggling more than the Fed expected, with expert Robert Shiller calling the trends "worrisome." The rise in housing prices is supposed to make consumers feel rich enough to spend more money, but it's not accomplishing that. "The spring home selling season has been mixed at best as investors have slowed down their purchase pace and the first time potential home buyer has been more inclined to rent," Boockvar wrote. 



Interest rates: The Federal Reserve's job is to manage interest rates, and investors have been waiting years for an increase in rates; they argue that low rates have been hurting savings. The Fed has indicated it won't raise interest rates until 2015 or later. With the economic picture worsening, however, it may be under pressure. 



Overall: Expect a "nothing to see here, folks," stance that will require a deeper interpretation of how the Fed is seeing the economy. Fed officials will probably try to make this week¡¯s FOMC meeting uneventful for markets, continuing to sound positive about the outlook," said economists at High-Frequency Economics.