A Chinese technology company has been using satellites to explore a claim that the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 crashed in a Cambodian jungle.

Ian Wilson, a digital video producer from the UK, believes he has spotted the plane on Google Maps.

The aircraft vanished four years ago, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, with 239 people on board in what has become one of the greatest aviation mysteries in history.

Wilson says the Google Maps object, which lies around 60 miles west of Phnom Penh, is close in size to the Boeing 777-200.

※I just thought I＊d have a wander through. I work in digital video so I＊m on Google Earth all the time,§ he said.

※So I was on there - a few hours here, a few hours there. If you added it up I spent hours searching for places a plane could have gone down.§

Experts from Chang Guang Satellite Technology Co Ltd assembled ten satellites to zoom in on the high-altitude jungle but have found no sign of the plane.

Wang Ya'nan, chief editor of Aerospace Knowledge magazine, told the Chinese newspaper Global Times that it would ※take a professional search team on the ground to lay the claim to rest§.

Wilson hopes to visit the area himself.

However, the Aviation Safety Network suggests his find could just be a jet in the air caught by a Google Maps satellite.

Meanwhile, Sin Chansereyvutha, spokesman for Cambodia's State Secretariat of Civil Aviation, told Xinhua news agency: ※First, there is not any evidence - information or data - to prove that it crashed in Cambodia.

※Second, if this news was true, the Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia would make a hotline call to us for cooperation, because in ASEAN we have a memorandum of understanding on cooperation and information sharing on search and rescue when there is a plane crash.

※But the Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia has not contacted us on this issue, so we conclude that this is false news.§

Others have pointed out that Cambodia is 4,000 miles away from Reunion Island, where debris from the plane washed up, suggesting it went down in the Indian Ocean after all.

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 was deliberately flown out into the Indian Ocean before disappearing 每 although why and by whom remains a mystery, a long-awaited report from the Malaysian government has concluded.

Speaking at a press conference in Putrajaya, Malaysia, on Monday, the government＊s chief investigator Kok Soo Chon said: ※We can conclude that MH370 had turned back and the turn back was not because of anomalies in the mechanical system. The turn back was made not under autopilot but under manual control.§

He was quick to dismiss two of the most popular conspiracy theories surrounding the plane＊s disappearance, saying ※we are not of the opinion it could have been an event committed by the pilots§, whilst also appearing to disprove accusations of mechanical failure.

He did, however, add that while the 600-page report did not contain any evidence to suggest that the plane was taken over remotely by hackers or terrorists, ※we cannot exclude the possibility that there was unlawful interference by a third party.§

Speaking to The Australian, renowned Canadian air crash investigator Larry Vance said that, if a third party was found to be behind the crash, ※the final sentence of this report should be a recommendation that a full criminal investigation be conducted to identify the perpetrator(s) and examine the potential motivation(s)§.

Flight MH370 vanished with 239 people on board en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014.

Its disappearance sparked one of the biggest search missions in history, but four years and hundreds of millions of dollars later it remains one of the world＊s greatest aviation mysteries, sparking countless conspiracy theories about its fate.

Today＊s long-awaited findings 每 initially described as the ※final report§, although investigators then backtracked from that description 每 ※left the hopes of the families dashed after it failed to provide any concrete conclusions about the reasons the plane disappeared nor any indication where the wreckage might be§, says The Guardian.

It reiterates Malaysia＊s assertion that the plane was deliberately diverted and flown for more than seven hours after severing communications. The Daily Mail reports that relatives who were briefed at the Transport Ministry before the report＊s public release ※expressed anger that there was nothing new in the document, with some storming out of the briefing as frustration boiled over§.

Despite parts of the wreckage being discovered as far north as the eastern coast of Tanzania and as far south as the eastern coast of South Africa, Chon told reporters: ※The team is unable to determine the real cause for disappearance. The answer can only be conclusive if the wreckage is found.§

He appeared to hand responsibility for the final answer to the mystery of MH370 over to the Australian government, which led the search and rescue operations. ※As far as our team is concerned, we have done our job... We do not deal with search. Search is not our area. You have to ask the people responsible for the search. I can only answer your question relating to the investigation,§ he said.

Last month, a private ※no find, no fee§ search was finally called off after US-seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity failed to find any sign of the plane in a 125,000sq/km area identified as its most likely resting place by experts.

Malaysia＊s new government, which took power in May, has said the hunt could be resumed but only if new evidence comes to light. Officials seem keen to draw a line under the tragedy.

The fate of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 looks set to remain a mystery, after the four-year multi-million dollar search finally came to an end today with the plane's whereabouts still unknown.

In March 2014, 239 people on board the flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing vanished in what has become the greatest mystery in aviation history.

The disappearance sparked one of the biggest and most expensive search operations of all time as well as countless conspiracy theories.

A three-year $151m (115m) search by Malaysian, Australian and Chinese investigators was called off in January 2017 after failing to find any sign of the plane or debris over a 120,000 square-mile area in the Indian Ocean, thought to be the most likely final resting place of MH370.

Then in January this year, under pressure from relatives, the Malaysian government signed a $70m (52m) 90-day ＆no find, no fee＊ deal with US private seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity to explore a 9,650 square-mile zone north of the original search area.

At the time Malaysian officials said there was an 85% chance of success, but as the search has gone on with still no sign of the plane, expectation has slowly turned to disappointment.

Ocean Infinity＊s primary vessel, Seabed Explorer, found nothing in the initial search area and has since extended its activities to cover over 33,300 square miles of seabed in the southern Indian Ocean.

But with worsening weather making any continued search impossible, Ocean Infinity＊s gamble has failed to pay off, leaving the families of those on board searching for answers about what happened.

Danica Weeks, an Australian who lost her husband on the flight, called on her country's foreign minister Julie Bishop to urge Malaysia's new government to be more transparent about what it knows of the disappearance.

Voice 370, a lobby group made up of MH370 families, have called on the Malaysian government to release the plane＊s full cargo manifest, arguing that the flight was carrying more than two tonnes worth of cargo which has never been fully identified.

The New Zealand Herald says the mystery cargo ※was the focus of early conspiracy theories relating to MH370's disappearance thanks to a decision by Malaysian authorities not to immediately disclose that the plane had a been carrying a large quantity of potentially flammable lithium batteries§.

Malaysian transport minister Anthony Loke says a full report into the plane＊s disappearance will be published in the future but has so far not given a date.

Australian, Malaysian and Chinese authorities have all agreed that an official search would not resume unless credible evidence emerged on the plane＊s location.

However, in one ray of light for relatives, Anwar Ibrahim, who is widely tipped to become Malaysia's prime minister, told The Australian newspaper there was ※further digging§ to be done.

In the long-term, ※a project to map the ocean floor may also offer answers§, says the BBC.

Until then though, it appears the plane＊s disappearance will remain a mystery and continue to be a favourite topic for conspiracists for years to come.

Aviation experts examining the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 believe the pilot may have crashed the plane on purpose after deliberately avoiding detection on radar.

According to a panel assembled for Australian TV programme 60 Minutes, the 239 passengers of MH370, which disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in 2014, were the victims of a ※criminal§ act of murder-suicide carried out by the plane＊s captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah.

The experts, who include former Australia Transport Safety Bureau boss Martin Dolan, say that evidence indicates Shah executed a series of manoeuvres to evade radar detection and ensure the plane disappeared in a remote location, The Sun reports.

They all agreed the likelihood of the disappearance being an accident was ※one in a trillion§, accusing Shah of ※deliberately§ downing the plane.

According to Simon Hardy, a senior Boeing 777 pilot and instructor, Shah avoided detection by Malaysian and Thai military radar by flying along the border, crossing in and out of each country＊s airspace. It was while on the border that the plane＊s transponder suddenly turned off, something that could be done manually by the pilot.

※As the aircraft went across Thailand and Malaysia, it runs down the border, which is wiggling underneath, meaning it＊s going in and out of those two countries, which is where their jurisdictions are,§ Hardy told the programme.

※So both of the controllers aren＊t bothered about this mysterious aircraft. Because it＊s, ＆Oh, it＊s gone. It＊s not in our space any more.＊§

Hardy believes that Shah took an unusual flight path in order to pass directly over his hometown of Penang, Malaysia, for an ※emotional goodbye§, before ditching it in the Southern Indian Ocean ※where it could never be found§.

MH370: $70m gamble backfires as search comes up empty

A $70m gamble by a private seabed exploration firm to find Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 looks to have backfired as the search nears its conclusion with no sign of the missing plane.

The fate of MH370 has become one of aviations greatest mysteries and spawned countless conspiracy theories since it disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014 with 239 people on board.

An international search effort, which lasted over three years and cost in excess of 144m, was finally called off early last year, but following pressure from relatives, in January the Malaysian government signed a 90-day $70m ※no find, no fee§ deal with Texas-based Ocean Infinity to resume the hunt for the plane.

At the time, officials said there was an 85% chance of finding the debris in a 25,000 sq km (9,650sq mile) search area identified by experts as the most likely resting place of the plane.

Yet four months and nearly 80,000 sq km later, Ocean Infinity has yet to find any sign of the plane.

It is worrying news for the families of those who disappeared on the flight who are desperate to know what happened to their loved ones, but also for the US firm who ※were so confident of success they agreed they would only be paid if the missing aircraft was found§, says News.com.au.

Now it looks like its $70m gamble has failed to pay off.

Under its contract with the Malaysian government, Ocean Infinity has 90 days 每 not including rest stops 每 to find the plane and, most importantly, its black box. ※The company will only be paid if it finds the plane, with the fee rising the longer the operation takes§, says The Guardian.

In a noticeably downbeat statement, Ocean Infinity＊s chief executive Oliver Plunkett said it was ※disappointing§ the search had failed to find any sign of MH370, but added ※there was still some search time remaining§ and stressed that everyone at the company ※remains absolutely determined for the remainder of the search§.

Currently refuelling in Freemantle, Western Australia, before heading out for its final outing, ※Ocean Infinity is likely to end its operation before mid-June, as the southern hemisphere's winter could make the conditions at sea too dangerous for the search to continue§, says the Daily Express.

The Malaysian government has also confirmed that the search will end in mid-June meaning, unless a breakthrough is made in the next month, the fate of MH370 will most likely remain a mystery forever.

Missing plane ＆found＊ using Google Earth and ＆riddled with bullet holes＊

An Australian engineer claims to have found the wreckage of the missing Malaysian Airways flight MH370 while looking on Google Earth.

MH370 disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board in March 2014. It led to one of the biggest and most expensive seabed searches in history but four years on it remains one of aviation＊s greatest ever mysteries and has spawned countless conspiracy theories.

In January 2017, a joint multinational search between Malaysia, China and Australia which cost more than 115 million was called off. Following pressure from relatives, in January this year the Malaysian government hired private seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity for one final 90-day $70 million (50m) ＆no find, no fee＊ search mission over a 25,000 sq/km area identified as the most likely resting place for the aircraft.

Yet despite the cost of the search now running into hundreds of millions of dollars, an amateur crash investigator insists he has discovered the location of the missing aircraft, miles away from the main search area.

Peter McMahon, who claims to have worked in crash investigations for more than 25 years, says he has used Google Maps and Nasa images to locate the aircraft 10 miles south of small islet Round Island, near Mauritius, ※an area which was not included in the search operation by experts§ says The Metro.

One image released to the press appears to show the outline of a plane underneath the water, while another apparently details the front part of the cabin south of Rodrigues Island, also near Mauritius.

Debris was found by volunteers clearing a beach in St Andre, Reunion in 2015 and Australia released satellite imagery in 2017 showing 12 objects floating near the suspected crash site, reports The Sun.

McMahon says he has sent his findings to the Australian Transport and Safety Bureau, which confirmed it could be the missing craft.

However, the Daily Star says US officials have reportedly instructed Ocean Infinity to stick to their assigned area of the Indian Ocean.

This has fuelled conspiracy theories, with McMahon telling the Star Online it proved there was a government led-cover-up to make sure the plane was never found.

※Four Americans were sent to Australia to oversee the findings of MH370. They have made sure that all information received has been hidden from the public, even our government 每 but why?§ he asks.

McMahon says authorities ※do not want it found as it＊s full of bullet holes, finding it will only open another inquiry§.

The theory that the plane was shot down either on purpose or accidentally has become one of the most popular conspiracies to emerge surrounding the disappearance of the plane.

Ghyslain Wattrelos, who lost his wife and two children in the crash, says he believes Vietnam, Malayia and Thailand could be withholding vital information.

Speaking to the Star, he said: ※All the military from these countries have seen the plane, if we believe that version. Why are they silent? There is something we do not want to say in this story.§

A full report into missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 will be held back if the plane is found, Malaysian investigators have said, stoking fears of a cover-up.

Four years to the day since the plane disappeared over the Indian Ocean with 239 people on board, and the fate of MH370 remains one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries.

CNBC says the release of a full report into MH370's disappearance has been ※suspended§ pending the outcome of a new search by private US-based seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity.

In their annual interim statement sent to families of those aboard the plane, Malaysian investigators said this was because any new evidence uncovered is ※likely to significantly affect the investigation§ and ※in the event that the aircraft is found, the team will conduct further investigations§.

But this has led to accusations the government may be attempting a cover-up by failing to disclose the full findings to the public.

In their first official statement to the media since beginning the hunt just over a month ago, two Malaysian navy officers seconded to the search, said they ※remain optimistic§ of finding the plane and were ※doing their utmost§, even as the search was slowed by bad weather and tricky underwater terrain.

Azmi Rosedee and Adbul Halim Ahmad Nordin told the New Straits Times: ※We have gone through a number of rough days. Operations continue even when the sea is rough ＃ but it makes it difficult for us to deploy and recover the AUVs [search vehicles]. This slows us down§.

Both officers send daily updates back to Kuala Lumpur on the search＊s progress, and ※these have revealed the struggles of the Norwegian search ship while enduring massive seas including 15m waves§, says News.com.au.

Last month the Australian Broadcasting Corporation revealed that the presence of Malaysian military on board the Seabed Constructor search vessel had sparked a ※power struggle§, ※with concerns the Malaysian government wanted stricter oversight and military control over the search§ reports The Guardian.

On Thursday the Malaysian navy chief, Admiral Tan Sri Ahmad Kamarulzaman Ahmad Badaruddin, defended the presence of the naval officers on board the privately owned vessel.

※Since the cost of this search will be borne by the government, it is necessary to have our representatives on board to observe the operation§ he said.

He also said the two officers would be his ※eyes and ears§ and would ensure that the search was carried out smoothly.

More than half of the 25,000 sq/km search area, identified as the ※likely§ resting place of the missing plane, has already been covered by Ocean Infinity.

Officials initially put the chance of the finding the plane at 85% but as the search has worn on there are growing fears the aircraft will never be found, leaving many questions unanswered and the victims＊ families in limbo.

As the relatives of those who went missing on board Malaysian Airways flight MH370 prepare to mark the fourth anniversary of the plane＊s disappearance, hope that one of aviation＊s greatest ever mysteries will ever be solved is hanging by a thread.

The latest search for the missing plane by a private US seabed exploration firm offers the last realistic chance to find answers, but is set to conclude by June, a Malaysian official has said.

In January, the Malaysian government singed a 90-day $70 million ※no find, no fee§ deal with Texas-based Ocean Infinity to resume the hunt for the plane, following pressure from relatives.

The fate of MH370 has become one of aviation＊s greatest mysteries and sparked one of the largest and most expensive search missions in history, not to mention a host of conspiracy theories.

The plane vanished on 8 March, 2014, while flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

An international search effort took over three years and cost in excess of 144 million, but was finally called off in January last year.

Officials have said there is an 85% chance of finding the debris in a new 25,000 sq km (9,650sq mile) search area identified by experts, however time is running out.

Malaysia＊s civil aviation chief, Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, said the 90-day term will be spread over a longer period because Ocean Infinity＊s search vessel, the Seabed Constructor, has to refuel in Australia and bad weather could be a factor.

※The whole world, including the next of kin, have [new] hope to find the plane for closure,§ Rahman told reporters. ※For the aviation world, we want to know what exactly happened to the plane.§

Family members gathered in Malaysia on Saturday to mark the fourth anniversary of the plane's disappearance and observe a moment＊s silence for loved ones, but ※most are split over whether the search will be fruitful§ says the Associated Press.

Speaking to the news agency, Jiang Hui of China, whose mother was on board the plane, said he was grateful for Ocean Infinity＊s willingness to mount the search, and that he hoped it would not be the end if the mission failed. He proposed a public fund be set up to continue the search.

※Without a search, there will be no truth,§ he said.

The search for the missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 has taken another bizarre turn after the vessel searching for the plane disappeared for three days.

Ocean Infinity, which has leased the Seabed Constructor search ship, has signed a $55 million (40 million) 90-day ※no find, no fee§ deal with the Malaysian government to look for the missing plane, which vanished en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur in March 2014 with 239 people on board.

Yet just ten days into its search, the multi-million dollar vessel, which is fitted with a sophisticated Automatic Identification System (AIS) went offline after turning off its tracker.

It finally reconnected on Sunday after 80 hours of undocumented travel ※but the reason for its disconnection remains unclear, with its whereabouts during this period undocumented§, says The Sun.

The disabling of the search vessel's AIS transmission has stoked conspiracy theories and led to comparisons with MH370, which disappeared after its communication systems were switched off an hour after taking off.

Ocean Infinity＊s progress is being closely monitored by aviation enthusiasts, search experts and conspiracy theorist alike so its disappearance has been widely reported and caused massive speculation as to its fate.

Some suggested it had found the wreckage of the plane but had turned off its location tracking system until it had confirmed its fee from the Malaysian government. Others claimed it had failed to find the missing plane and instead detoured towards the wreckage of what is believed to be the S.V. Inca - a Peruvian transport ship that vanished on the way to Sydney more than 100 years ago.

So far neither Ocean Infinity or the Malaysian government have explained the outage, or where the ship travelled in those three days.

This has led to criticism of the way the Texas-based private company is conducting the search.

Families of the victims have called for greater transparency over the ship＊s temporary disappearance, and the wider search in general.

Speaking for the victims＊ relatives, KS Narendran told The Guardian: ※I found the development quite odd, and worrying. If this silence and becoming invisible was intentional, to ward off suspicion, a satisfactory explanation is due. If it was for other reasons, then in the interests of transparency, we ought to be told what caused it§.

※There are no journalists and no family members on board the search ship. I wish there were some ... We watch on in good faith. I hope ongoing official disclosure is of such a high order that there is little room for speculation, controversy or a whiff of conspiracy.§

Yet there could be a more prosaic excuse for the three-day black out says Kevin Rupp, a precision machinist who has been publicly tracking Seabed Constructor.

※If the ship detected possible contacts [with MH370] its most likely action would be to move to the spot of the detections and lower an ROV 每 a tethered remote-controlled small vehicle,§ he said.

※To do this, Seabed Constructor would have to sit still in one place for a long period of time and this would be very noticeable to those of us watching through our AIS tracking apps ... I believe they may have turned the AIS transmitter to low power mode to prevent us from speculating that they had found something and causing undue distress for the next of kin.§

However, ※with little to no information coming from the ship, it remains unclear what, if anything, it has found§ says the Daily Mail.

The fate of MH370 has become one of aviation＊s greatest mysteries and sparked one of the largest and most expensive search missions in history, taking over three years and costing in excess of 144 million.

The bodies of those aboard missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 will most likely be perfectly preserved ※like a time capsule§ when they are found, a US oceanographer and salvage expert has claimed.

Dr David Gallo, who led the search for Air France 447 which went down in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, killing all 228 people on board, says due to the depth, temperature and stillness of the southern Indian Ocean where the plane is believed to have crashed, the passengers corpses will not have deteriorated.

※It's just like a crime scene＃ an underwater crime scene§ Gallo told the Daily Star, adding that if the bodies are preserved they could offer vital clues as to why the aircraft went down.

Citing his experience on the Air France salvage mission, he said that even if the plane had been ripped to pieces upon hitting the ocean, the bodies would still be intact.

"In some places bodies don't last very long at all, and even the sea water dissolves bones so that there's nothing that remains§, he said. But in the case of Air France, ※there were bodies that were, in a way, preserved. Normal processes of decomposition don't happen§.

The fate of MH370, which vanished with 239 people on board en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014, has become one of the world＊s greatest aviation mysteries and spawned a host of conspiracy theories.

However, the revelation that people＊s loved ones could be resting fully preserved at the bottom of the ocean has given extra impetus to find the missing aircraft.

Ocean Infinity, a private seabed exploration firm, has begun a 90-day ＆no cure, no fee＊ search for the plane, focusing on a 25,000 sq/mile area of sea identified as the most likely location for the wreckage.

On Saturday, Sky News revealed that a London-based hedge fund millionaire was financing the search. The broadcaster has learnt that Anthony Clake, an executive at Marshall Wace Asset Management, is the key figure behind the Texas-based company.

Clake, who oversees billions of pounds of clients' money at Marshall Wace, is understood to have invested in Ocean Infinity after being impressed by its advanced technology, although his involvement in the hunt for the missing aircraft is restricted to a financing role, and he has no day-to-day role in the operation.

Ocean Infinity could receive as much as $70 million if they find the plane and recover its cockpit recorder, with shareholders footing the bill if the company returns empty-handed.

The search for the missing Malaysian Airways flight MH370 is set resume today, but aviation and recovery experts remain divided as to the chances of success.

US-based seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity has agreed a $70 million (51 million) ※no cure, no fee§ deal with the Malaysian government to search for the wreckage. They will focus on a 25,000 sq/km area in the Indian Ocean identified the Australian Transportation Safety Board (ATSB) as the most likely resting place for the plane.

Malaysian authorities have placed a 90-day time limit on the search and prioritised recovering the plane＊s black box and cockpit voice recorder.

Ocean Infinity plans to concurrently deploy a series of multi-sensor, untethered autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) which will report back to the host ship, Seabed Constructor.

The 378-foot vessel departed Durban, South Africa last week with 65 crew members from Ocean Infinity, two Malaysian Navy officials and eight AUVs armed with cameras and sensors, and has arrived at the search area. Among the crew are two experts who were involved it the successful search for Air France Flight 447, which crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, killing 288 people on board.

Each AUV can search 460 sq/miles per day at depths up to nearly 20,000 feet, 10 times the rate achieved by the previous search and nearly 5,000 feet deeper.

The Seabed Constructor is due to remain at sea for three weeks at a time before returning to Perth to refuel and refresh the crew.

Oliver Plunkett, CEO of Ocean Infinity said: ※Whilst there can be no guarantees of locating the aircraft, we believe our system of multiple autonomous vehicles working simultaneously is well suited to the task at hand§.

Announcing the deal at the beginning of January, Malaysia＊s Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said there was an 85% chance of finding debris in the new search area.

Don Thompson, a member of The Independent Group of volunteer engineers and scientists who have advised the authorities investigating the disappearance, said he thinks that the new search has ※at least a 70% chance§ of finding the wreckage. The chances increase the farther north that the search extends, he told AIN.

However, others are less confident. University of Kuala Lumpur test pilot Prof Dr Mohd Harridon Mohamed Suffian said interpreting sonar data and translating it into credible 3D images that can be used to identify debris will be the primary challenge for the Seabed Constructor vessel, while bad weather could also hamper the search.

※It is a race against time because a window of more moderate weather that makes a search possible closes by the end of April§ says the Daily Beast.

Ahmad Maulan Bardai, a researcher at a local airline, told The Sun Daily that after almost four years, any wreckage would have been buried deeper by other seabed debris and components and might not be found.

Even then, ※it is unclear how much investigators could learn in the event Ocean Infinity finds the jet§ says ABC News.

Even if the black box is retrieved and still functioning after years at the bottom of some of the world＊s deepest oceans, the cockpit voice recorder operates on a loop and the mysterious early moments of the flight would most likely have been erased.

※One key question however may be answered upon discovery of the cockpit,§ says ABC: ※who was in control during the plane's final moments?§

Malaysian Airways flight MH370 disappeared in March 2014 en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board and has since become one of the greatest mysteries in aviation history, spawning countless conspiracy theories.

The latest hypothesis suggests the plane may have been ditched in the Indian Ocean by the pilot, who flew the aircraft right until the very end.

According to reports in The Australian, lead air crash investigator Captain John Cox believes evidence from the recovered wing flaps suggests the doomed plane was dumped intentionally.

※Based on that analysis I think it is likely, possibly highly likely, that there was an attempt to ditch the airplane,§ he said.

Around 20 pieces of debris believed to be from MH370 have washed up on coastlines around the Indian Ocean. The most significant of these was the remains of a wing flap, which was found on Reunion Island off the coast of east coast of Africa in 2015, and has since been positively identified as belonging to the missing Malaysian Airways flight.

However, ※Captain Cox＊s suggestion of a ditched aircraft does not support the popular theories that the plane was destroyed in a ＆death dive＊ or a ＆ghost flight＊§ says the Daily Mail.

As the search resumes for missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370, the widow of one of the passengers has launched a lawsuit against the plane＊s manufacturer Boeing.

Australian mother of two Danica Weeks, whose husband was on board the plane when it went missing in March 2014, claims it was a fault on the aircraft that caused the crash and is suing Boeing to pick up the bill should the wreckage been found.

Private US-based seabed exploration firm, Ocean Infinity, is to set begin its search for the missing aircraft this week as part of a 70 million deal with the Malaysian government.

A ship chartered by the company, the Seabed Constructor, is expected to reach and begin searching the 25,000 sq/km area in the Indian Ocean identified as the most likely resting place of the plane on Wednesday. The company has been given a three month deadline and will only be paid if the plane is found.

Weeks, who has also filed proceedings against Malaysian Airlines, said Boeing needed to prove its aircraft were safe and helping to pay for MH370's recovery if it is found would help to do that.

"I'm not suing for money§ she said. ※The beauty of aviation law is they have to prove they weren't negligent, not the other way round.§

"So let's hear from them, let's hear from the horse's mouth that those planes are safe, because quite frankly their silence has been pretty scary.§

Weeks said her action was the only way to get the world＊s largest aerospace firms to talk, claiming she is not able to hold a memorial service for her husband until she knows what happened to him.

There is precedent for manufactures footing at least part of the bill for one of their planes＊ recovery. Boeing＊s main rival Airbus help fund the search for Air France flight 477, which crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, killing 228 people.

MH370: new private search has ＆85% chance of success＊

The search of missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 is to resume, after the Malaysian government signed a multi-million dollar deal with a private US firm to find the missing aircraft.

Two hundred and thirty-nine people disappeared aboard the flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014, in what has become the world＊s greatest aviation mysteries and spawned countless conspiracy theories.

A three year $157 million search by Australian, Chinese and Malaysian authorities was called off in January last year having covered more than 120,000 sq. km of seabed.

The decision to end the search caused outrage among the victims＊ families; especially after new evidence emerged suggesting the most likely location for the remains of the plane was a 25,000 sq-km area further to the north of the original search area.

Now it appears Malaysian authorities, who are leading the investigation, have bowed to public pressure and agreed a $70 million deal with Ocean Infinity, a private US-based seabed exploration firm, which first offered to resume the search back in the autumn.

Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said the Houston-based comapny would search for MH370 in that 25,000-sq-km priority area on a ※no-cure, no-fee§ basis, meaning it will only get paid if it finds the plane.

※After looking into their expert＊s view, there＊s an 85% probability of finding the wreckage at this new area,§ Liow told reporters after the signing ceremony in Malaysia.

According to Reuters, Ocean Infinity will be paid $20 million if the plane is found within 5,000 sq km, $30 million if it is found within 10,000 square km and $50 million if it is found within an area of 25,000 square km. Beyond that area, Ocean Infinity will receive $70 million.

The US firm, which predominantly focuses on gas and oil discovery, aims to use eight autonomous underwater vehicles that can operate at depths of up to 6km to look for the plane. Still, ※the technology is relatively new and the vehicles have mainly been tested in the North Atlantic§ says the Wall Street Journal.

The deal does, however, come with a time-limit. Liow said its priority is to locate the wreckage or the flight and cockpit recorders, and present credible evidence to confirm their location within 90 days.

※They cannot take forever or drag it on for another six months or a year§ he stressed.

MH370: new search to begin by January

A month after Malaysia received offers from three firms to reopen the search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, the government announced it is negotiating terms with US seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity to restart the hunt either next month or in January.

Ocean Infinity offered to conduct the search for free and only seek compensation if the aircraft is found.

The Malaysian government will make a decision on the search soon, once the transport minister, Liow Tiong Lai meets his counterparts from Australia and China next month, the director general of Malaysia＊s Department of Civil Aviation told Channel News Asia.

Ocean Infinity told Free Malaysia Today that if given the green light the firm will use six autonomous underwater vehicles capable of operating at depths of up to 6,000 metres.

Australian officials suspended the original three-year search, after only finding debris from the Boeing 777 plane that was lost in 2014 but never locating the main wreckage or any of the 239 people on board, much to the dismay of the families of the missing.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau vowed only to reopen its investigation if new evidence presented itself.

The $200 million (159 million) 120,000sq km search had been carried out by Australia, Malaysia and China after the flight which was travelling from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, veered off course and crashed. The investigation concluded that the plane is most likely located in the Southern Indian Ocean, somewhere to the north of the original search area.

When Ocean Infinity first presented its proposal last month, Voice370, a support group for the families of those on board was in favour of the new mission.

The support group asked in a statement obtained by The Australian, ※Why hasn＊t Malaysia accepted this win-win offer?§

MH370: US team to be be paid 15 million for finding plane

A US company will be paid between $20 million and $70 million (15 to 53 million) if it finds any trace of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 within 90 days of beginning a new search.

The search for the missing MH370 ※could begin anew early next year, once the Malaysian government finalises a contract with international subsea exploration company Ocean Infinity,§ says Free Malaysia Today.

Malaysia's deputy transport minister said the nation's cabinet has accepted ※in principle§ an offer from Ocean Infinity to search a 25,000 square kilometre area for the plane.

Ocean Infinity offered to search for the plane on a ※no-find, no-fee§ basis.

Deputy Transport Minister Datuk Ab Aziz Kaprawi said that cabinet ministers had agreed ※to prepare a special allocation to the Ministry of Transport amounting to between $20 million up to $70 million if MH370 aircraft wreckage is successfully found within 90 days§.

MH370 vanished from radar screens on March 8, 2014, with 227 passengers and 12 crew on board. Analysis of satellite data showed the plane had flown for six hours after contact was lost.

A sonar search of the seabed was suspended in January this year after failing to find any aircraft debris.

The Australian newspaper reports that Texas-based Ocean Infinity had indicated it would use far more advanced technology to conduct the search than that used previously.

It plans, for instance, ※to use eight pilotless miniature submarines at any one time to run sonar scanning missions,§ the website adds.

Ocean Infinity will focus on searching the seafloor in an area that has previously been identified by experts as the next most likely location to find MH370, just to the north of the original search area.

The Australian newspaper quoted Australian Transport Minister Darren Chester as saying that at Malaysia＊s request, Australia would provide technical assistance to the Malaysian government and Ocean Infinity.

※Australia has developed considerable experience given its role in the search to date, and stands ready to support the extended search if it goes ahead,§ Chester was quoted as saying.

MH370: three companies offer to start new search for missing plane

Three private companies have offered to resume the search for missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370, nearly a year after it was officially called off.

In January, Australian officials suspended the nearly three-year search for the plane which disappeared in March 2014 with all 239 people on board as it journeyed from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

Its disappearance prompted the biggest search in aviation history with more than $200 million (159 million) spent covering 120,000sq/km in a multinational effort carried out by Australia, Malaysia and China.

The subsequent investigation concluded that the plane is most likely located in a 9,700 sq-mile area in the Southern Indian Ocean but the Australian Transport Safety Bureau vowed only to reopen its underwater search if new evidence presented itself.

Now, in the absence of an official investigation, the three companies are looking to pick up where government search teams left off.

Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai says that proposals to restart the search have been received from US seabed exploration firm Ocean Infinity, Dutch firm Fugro, which was part of the original underwater search, and an unidentified Malaysian company, Reuters reported.

※We won＊t be deciding anything now on whether we are embarking on a new search or not,§ Liow said. ※We have to discuss with the companies. It will take some time as it＊s some detailed discussions.§

Ocean Infinity representatives offered to conduct the search for free, saying they would only require payment if the plane was found.

※The terms of the offer are confidential, but I can confirm that Ocean Infinity have offered to take on the economic risk of a renewed search,§ Ocean Infinity spokesman Mark Antelme told The Australian.

※We＊re in a constructive dialogue with the relevant authorities and are hopeful that the offer will be accepted.＊＊

Voice370, a support group for the families of those on board, questioned why Malaysia hadn＊t gone forward with the offer.

※Why hasn＊t Malaysia accepted this win-win offer?§ the support group asked in a statement.

Liow says the proposals must also be presented to Australia and China before any final decision can be made.

Amid the news of a possible new search, Malaysia Airlines＊ Chief Executive Officer Peter Bellew is expected to leave his position and return to his post as Chief Operations Officer of Ryanair after the airlines＊ pilot-shortage debacle, CNN reported.

Bellew was rehired by Ryanair to improve relationships with pilots and will rejoin the airline in December. He is the third CEO to resign from Malaysia Airlines in the last three years, having only been in the role for a year.

Earlier this year Bellew denied rumours he would rejoin Ryanair and said he was focused on being a part of the turnaround at Malaysia Airlines after the airline saw two disasters in 2014.

※I think this will be the greatest turnaround in the history of aviation and maybe even of any business,§ he previously told CNN.

MH370 final report: will missing plane ever be found?

The official report into the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has delivered a damning assessment of the search effort, saying it is ※almost inconceivable§ that the aircraft has not been found

The hunt for the missing plane - which disappeared with 239 people on board in March 2014, less than an hour into its flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing - became the largest and most expensive surface and underwater searches in aviation history, eventually covering more than 46,000 sq miles. The multinational operation, which cost more than $160m, and involved ships and aircraft from countries including India, China, the US and Australia, was indefinitely suspended in January, after 1,046 days.

In its final report, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which coordinated the underwater search on behalf of the Malaysian government, said the understanding of MH370＊s location ※is better now than it has ever been§ and reiterated earlier estimates that the most likely location of the downed plane was a 9,700 sq-mile area to the north of the earlier search zone in the southern Indian Ocean.

However, it also said: ※It is almost inconceivable and certainly societally unacceptable in the modern aviation era with 10 million passengers boarding commercial aircraft every day, for a large commercial aircraft to be missing and for the world not to know with certainty what became of the aircraft and those on board.§

ATSB chief commissioner Greg Hood admitted as much when he said: ※It remains a great tragedy and we wish that we could have brought complete closure to the bereaved. I hope, however, that they can take some solace in the fact that we did all we could do to find answers.§

It has never been confirmed what happened to the aircraft after it lost contact seven hours into its journey. The search initially focused on the sea off the western coast of Australia but debris, confirmed to be from the missing aircraft that washed up along the eastern coast of Africa and the beaches of Indian Ocean islands, prompted investigators to widen their search area.

※Analysis of the last satellite readings from the missing plane showed it was spiralling fast towards the sea when it stopped transmitting§, says CNN.

Despite protests from the victims' families the Australian government has confirmed that only ※credible§ new evidence will cause the search to be resumed. And with ATSB admitting that ※the reasons for the loss of MH370 cannot be established with certainty until the aircraft is found§ the fate of MH370 is likely to remain one of aviation's greatest enduring mysteries and further fuel the countless conspiracy theories surrounding its disappearance.

The murder of a man who spent years investigating the disappearance of Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 has reignited conspiracy theories about the fate of the missing plane.

Honorary Consul of Malaysia Zahid Raza was shot dead in Madagascar's capital Antananarivo last week in an apparent assassination.

While authorities have yet to identify a motive, "some have expressed concern about possible links between his death and his work to piece together the puzzle of the doomed Malaysian Airlines flight", says The Independent.

US lawyer and amateur investigator Blaine Gibson who has spent the last three years searching for debris around the Indian Ocean said Raza had been due to deliver new items of wreckage to Malaysian investigators when he was killed and told Malay Mail that the diplomat "appeared to have been specifically targeted".

Last December Reuters reported that Raza had assisted Gibson in transferring the custody of pieces believed to be from MH370 from Madagascar to Malaysia, after which time Gibson claims he began receiving death threats.

On Tuesday, Malaysia's transport minister Liow Tiong Lai confirmed that officials from Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) had been dispatched to Madagascar to receive and probe newly found suspected plane debris but said it was too early to tell "whether [Raza's death] was linked to MH370 or not".

None the less, the timing of the assassination has fuelled speculation that Raza's death is directly linked to his search for the missing plane. However, The Sun has cited local reports "that suggest Raza was a marked man long before Mr Gibson came along".

The French-language news website Zinfos 974 speculated Raza was killed as payback for his alleged involvement in the 2009 abduction of several residents of Indo-Pakistani descent known collectively as Karens.

Australian scientists claim to have found new evidence pinpointing the possible location of missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370, potentially solving one of the greatest aviation mysteries in history.

"Groundbreaking evidence" from previously discarded French satellite imagery and refined ocean drift modelling appears to show mad-made items located across four areas of the Indian Ocean, north of the original search area, Huffington Post Australia reports.

The findings, released by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) and Australia's main scientific agency the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), represent a major "breakthrough" says The Australian, in the search for the missing airline that disappeared in 2014 with 239 people on board.

CSIRO's David Griffin told Reuters he could pinpoint the location of the plane with "unprecedented precision and certainty" and "it is hoped the data will provide a crucial starting point for a sweep of a 9,700 mile stretch of water identified last November as the likely resting place of the plane" says the Daily Mail.

The images taken by a French Military satellite two weeks after the crash lie outside the original search zone. They were discarded by authorities in late March 2014 based on data available at the time about the plane's flight path but were passed to CSIRO for analysis in May as part of a 'systematic process of review' after initial searches failed to find the jet.

Greg Hood, Chief Commissioner of the ATSB, struck a more cautious note adding that "these objects have not been definitely identified as MH370 debris".

Regardless, "the tantalising new information will reignite pressure to locate the passenger plane, [that remains] one of aviation＊s greatest mysteries" says The Guardian.

The underwater search for the Boeing 777 in the southern Indian Ocean was suspended indefinitely in January to an outcry from families of the missing. While the Australian government has said it has not ruled out resuming the hunt for the plane, it said the latest findings are not specific enough to warrant a new search.

A private US firm, Ocean Infinity, has offered to resume the search for free and the new findings will pile more pressure on Malaysia, China and Australia to accept their offer.

Artificial intelligence could one-day help locate the wreckage of lost Malaysian Airlines flight MH370, the company's chief executive has said.

Speaking to The Australian newspaper, Peter Bellew claimed that "advances in science" as well as "the availability of artificial intelligence that's coming on stream," will "eventually" allow searchers to track down the remains of the aircraft.

"[There are people] who are spending a lot of their own resources at the moment and co-ordinating with authorities... I do think somebody will make a breakthrough somewhere around this, or a combination of people," he said.

Australia, Malaysia and China called off a 122 million, two-year search for the plane in January, amid protests from the families of tho who died onboard.

Now a private US company has offered to resume the search in a bid to solve one of the world's greatest aviation mysteries, which claimed the lives of 239 people onboard.

Grace Nathan, a Malaysian lawyer whose mother Anne Daisy was on the plane, told Reuters that US seabed exploration firm, Ocean Infinity, had offered to resume the search for free and had asked for a reward only in the event that the aircraft was found.

The company, which claims to have the world's most advanced fleet of autonomous underwater vehicles for use in underwater mapping, survey and search, told the AP news agency on Friday that it had "offered to take on the economic risk of a renewed search" and that it was in "constructive dialogue with the relevant authorities and was hopeful the offer will be accepted".

Ben Sandliands, the editor of aviation news website Plane Talking, says the offer by Ocean Infinity puts authorities in Malaysia, Australia and China "on the spot in terms of support", given the controversial suspension of the official tripartite search contrary to a recommendation by Australian scientists to make a final examination of a comparatively small section of the southern Indian Ocean seabed.

According to Al Jazeera, "Malaysia, Australia and China say the newly identified area is too big to justify resuming the publicly funded search" but now the relatives of those killed onboard have stepped up pressure on the Malaysian government to demand they accept the private offer to take up the hunt for the aircraft.

Voice370, a support group for families, said the terms of the offer represented a "win-win" for all involved as Ocean Infinity "would like to be paid a reward if and only if it finds the main debris field".

Malaysian officials have yet to formally comment on the latest developments but Sky News reports that the country's deputy transport minister Aziz Kaprawi has previously said the agreement of China, where most of the passengers came from, and Australia, would be needed for a deal to be reached.

Australian Transport Minister Darren Chester also declined to comment on the possibility of a private search, and said that while Australia has coordinated the search on its behalf, "Malaysia, as the state of registry for the aircraft, retains overall authority for any future search and any questions regarding possible future search efforts should be directed there."

A widow of one of the 239 people on board missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 has spoken of her resolve to discover the truth.

Danica Weeks, from Perth, Australia, says she will never give up on the search to find out what happened to her husband Paul, a mechanical engineer who was on his way to Mongolia for work when the flight vanished.

She also called on the aviation industry, including the aircraft manufacturers, to join the search.

"I think the aviation industry should get involved, but most of all Boeing - it was their plane. I want them to prove the plane is safe by finding it and the truth," she told the Irish Sun.

"It is important it is found, not just for the justice we and our loved ones deserve, but for the safety of the aviation industry as whole, for as long as the cause of the disappearance of MH370 remains a mystery, so too does the risk that it can happen again."

Weeks spoke of the turmoil of trying to explain to her two sons "what really happened to Daddy". She took the young boys to Kuala Lumpur on the third anniversary of the plane's disappearance and said she never flies without them "just in case something happens, as I have seen the pain of them losing one parent".

She added: "I just try to be there for them, but they have questions and most I can＊t answer as I don＊t know the answers myself, like, 'What really happened to Daddy?' I just hope one day in the future I will have the answers they so desperately want and deserve," she said.

She added she was "completely puzzled and disappointed" that the Malaysian government had not searched a site highlighted by Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, based on where debris of the missing plane had been discovered.

"Why wouldn＊t a site identified using 'actual' debris not be credible information to start a new search?" she asked.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 vanished en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014, with 227 passengers and 12 crew on board. Australian officials called off the search for the missing Boeing 777 in January this year.

Australian accident investigators have refused to publish their analysis of where missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 might have crashed into the ocean, after claims they should have admitted earlier they were looking in the wrong place.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) turned down a plea from the families of passengers to disclose working documents from the early days of the search.

Refusing a Freedom of Information (FoI) request for the same documents earlier this week, was made by The Australian newspaper, the bureau said making them public "would, or could reasonably be expected to, cause damage to the international relations of the Commonwealth".

The newspaper asked for the papers after it reported that scientists warned "long ago" that the search was being made in the wrong place.

The documents include international assessments of satellite tracking data from the last few hours of the plane's known flight path, which led the ATSB to conduct an underwater search in the southern Indian ocean.

In a report last December, the bureau said it was confident the 46,000sq-mi search had been conducted around 300 miles too far south and the most likely crash site was between the latitudes 40∼S and 30.5∼S.

The Australian reported last month that drift modelling, carried out after a flaperon from the plane washed up on Reunion, had led scientists to believe as early as July 2015 that investigators were not in the right place.

"The University of Western Australia scientist who led the independent drift modelling study, Charitha Pattiaratchi, said as soon as the flaperon was discovered in July 2015, it was pretty obvious the ATSB was looking in the wrong place," said the paper.

The newspaper added that it was 15 months before investigators came to the same conclusion "after stubbornly continuing to search the southern zone".

ATSB chief Greg Hood write to the newspaper accusing it of "inaccurate reporting" and stating his concern that the paper was misleading the families of the missing passengers.

One relative, Danica Weeks, accused Hood of putting "diplomatic niceties" ahead of "the sensitivities of the families and friends" of the people who had been on board the plane.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 vanished on 8 March 2014 en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, carrying 239 people.

Scientists in Australia say they are more confident than ever that a three-year search for the wreckage of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 took place too far south.

After monitoring the movement of an actual aircraft part released into the ocean, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation says it has pinpointed an area of around 10,000sq-miles in which it believes the plane came down.

However, Australian transport minister Darren Chester said the new finding did not satisfy the requirement to relaunch the search, which was called off in January until "credible new evidence" was found.

He added: "This body of 'drift modelling' work, along with review of satellite imagery, forms part of the ongoing activities being undertaken by the ATSB in the search for MH370.

"But it is important to note that it does not provide new evidence leading to a specific location of MH370."

An underwater search of some 46,000sq-miles carried out between October 2014 and January 2017 found of trace of the missing plane, which vanished on 8 March 2014 with 239 people on board.

Last December, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau released a report concluding the search had taken place too far south in the Indian Ocean and the real crash site was somewhere between the latitudes 40∼S and 30.5∼S.

This was based on computer modelling of ocean currents, working backwards from the discovery of wreckage from the plane thousands of miles away off the coast of Africa on the island of Reunion.

A flaperon found washed up on the island in July 2015 was confirmed as having been part of MH370. Other pieces of debris have since been found in the same general area.

Malaysia Airlines announced this week that it will become the first airline to monitor all its jets from space, delivering "minute-by-minute, 100 per cent global, flight-tracking data".

The technique will mean the airline 每 which has struggled to fill its flights after also losing MH17, which was shot down over the Ukraine 每 will know exactly where every plane is, even when they are passing over a remote stretch of ocean or desert.

Australian officials have faced a backlash after saying some details about the hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 will be kept confidential.

Employees at the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) have been warned they face prison time if they reveal certain information about the search.

Families of the 239 passengers who died on board the flight expressed outrage, saying it made the agency "look more guilty" of a cover-up.

News of the decision came after The Australian filed a freedom of information (FOI) request to see documents regarding the ATSB's "ghost flight" theory.

The bureau says expert analysis has led them to believe pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah was unconscious or dead when the plane vanished en route to Beijing in March 2014. This theory was used as the basis for their ultimately fruitless search for the crash site.

However, some aviation experts and amateur sleuths claim Shah deliberately steered his plane off course before crashing it and argue the ATSB should recalculate a new search area based on this assumption.

Documents requested in the FOI request include the opinions of international experts from the UK and US air crash agencies, British satellite group Inmarsat and Boeing.

However, the ATSB said releasing the information could "cause damage to the international relations of the Commonwealth".

ATSB chief commissioner Greg Hood added: "The activities of the ATSB with respect to assisting the Malaysian investigation are covered by the Transport Safety Investigation Act."

The act stipulates that any "serving or former ATSB staffer or consultant" who publicly discloses restricted information is liable to face two years in prison.

Danica Weeks, whose husband Paul is among the missing, told Free Malaysia Today she was "stunned" by the decision.

"I cannot come up with any solid reason why they wouldn't release the information other than it makes them or the Malaysian government look incompetent," she added.

MH370: Why did investigators search in the wrong area?

After closing their search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 investigators admitted they had been looking in the wrong location and the most recent data indicates the plane is most likely to the north of the previous search area.

MH370 disappeared on a routine flight from Beijing to Kuala Lumpur in 2014. The search centred on the southern Indian Ocean, but two years on, no wreckage was found and the investigation was subsequently closed.

Where did investigators look?

However, in November, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which oversaw the search, mounted a review of the investigation that concluded: "There is a high degree of confidence that the previously identified underwater area searched to date does not contain the missing aircraft."

Why was the search unsuccessful?

After putting together new flight simulations, modelling drift patterns based on debris matched to the missing plane and conducting further analysis of satellite communications, experts now believe an area immediately to the north of the current search area is most likely to contain the missing plane, the BBC says.

"The participants of the First Principles Review were in agreement on the need to search an additional area representing approximately 25,000 sq km (9,700sq-miles)," says the broadcaster.

Will a new search be carried out in this area?

Probably not. Australia's transport minister Darren Chester said the search will not be resumed, given the new report doesn't identify a "specific location" for the aircraft.

What has the reaction been?

Pressure is building from families of the victims for authorities to resume the search for the missing plane.

Sheryl Keen, of the international victims' advocacy group Voice370, personally handed letters from the relatives to Malaysian transport minister Liow Tiong Lai when he visited Australia this month.

"The general content is urging him to continue the search," Keen said. "I do believe some of them are quite heartfelt and others are quite brief."

During his visit to Perth, however, Liow reiterated that the underwater search would only be restarted if "credible new evidence" was discovered about the location of the MH370.

He said: "We will continue to work on the debris＃ We are committed to continue with the search for the debris, and from today on we hope we can get more credible evidence."

Families have also called on Australia to continue the search. However, Darren Chester said the Australian Transport Safety Bureau's conclusion was that it could not extend its investigation any further and that resuming the operation was "primarily Malaysia's call", the BBC reports.

Could it happen again?

In the wake of the disappearance of the MH370, questions were asked about why it is so difficult to trace the exact location of all aircraft while they are in the air.

This may be set to change at the end of 2018, when satellite communications firm Iridium launches 66 new satellites that will be able to track planes' altitude, position and speed across the entire globe.

"For the first time, we're getting aviation traffic from all over the world, including the oceans," Daniel Colussey, Iridium's former chief executive, said at a conference. "It's the first time a plane has ever been surveilled over the poles."

Two of the company's satellites launched in January have already been switched on and begun sending back data.

According to Singapore's The Independent newspaper, over the course of 62 hours, "one satellite collected the unique codes and positional data of 17,000 aircraft, including those over oceans and in remote locations where radar can't reach".

The success of the launch means positioning of aircraft may soon be significantly more precise, making it far more difficult for aircraft to disappear the way the MH370 did.

A Malaysian politician has criticised his country's handing of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 and called for continued efforts to solve the mystery.

Lim Kit Siang, who fronts the DAP, Malaysia's largest opposition party, said the government＊s response to the Boeing-777＊s disappearance was ※sloppy§ and ※shocking§, reports Free Malaysia Today.

He added that Malaysians have since "been ashamed to admit they are from this country" and called for investigations into the final resting place of the plane to continue.

MH370 vanished in March 2014, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in China, with 239 people on board. Officials decided earlier this year to end the search for the plane, which is thought to have vanished over the southern Indian Ocean, after investigators admitted they had probably been looking in the wrong location.

The Malaysian government has been widely criticised in the mishandling of the tragedy.

Relatives of those who died on board the plane travelled to Madagascar in December 2016 to perform their own search for debris and take the investigation into their own hands.

Investigators have rejected a report suggesting there was a 'mystery passenger' on board missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Andre Milne, an expert from navigation technology company Unicorn Aerospace, told the Daily Express he had uncovered documents showing there was an unaccounted person on board who may have brought the plane down.

His report, released to coincide with this week's third anniversary of MH370's disappearance, found a discrepancy on the plane's cargo manifest between the number of people it reported and the official figures cited by the airline.

According to Milne, the manifest showed 228 seats had been sold, not including the two children sitting on their parents' laps.

He told the Express: "It has been ＆claimed＊ that four people did not board plane. That would make final number of seats used down at 224. Add the two children and you get 226 passengers. Now add the 12 crew."

Milne's tally comes to 238 people; the airline's official count is 239.

"So now we have an ＆extra＊ person on board MH370," he said. "The extra passenger likely acted in conjunction with larger external operational support to take full command and control of the cockpit of MH370."

However, MH370 investigators denied there was any discrepancy. "The actual number of passengers on board was 227," a spokesperson told the Express.

As the cargo manifest was sent two hours prior to the plane taking off, late alterations were possible, he added: "The actual figures can differ from that transmitted on the load sheet due to last-minute changes."

Former Australian prime minister Tony Abbott says the hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 should be resumed in a radius further south from the previous search area.

Speaking just prior to the third anniversary of the flight's disappearance, the politician said he thought there was more work that could be done to retrieve the missing plane.

"There's absolutely no doubt that while there is any, any reasonable prospective places to search we should still be searching, no doubt about that in my mind," he told the Adelaide Advertiser.

Areas both further north and south of the previous site should be explored, he added.

"I have always said the most plausible scenario was murder-suicide and if this guy wanted to create the world's greatest mystery why wouldn't he have piloted the thing to the very end and gone further south?" he said.

"Then there was the analysis that suggested there might be a prospective place to the north.

"When you've got nearly 240 people missing - the greatest mystery of modern times - as long as there is any reasonable prospective place to search you just keep searching."

Flight MH370 vanished during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014, with 227 passengers and 12 crew on board. The search for it, the largest ever in aviation history, came to an end last month after a fruitless two-year investigation.

Murder-suicide was one theory investigators considered, "but there was little to no evidence uncovered to support it", the Adelaide Advertiser says.

One person who does support Abbott's theory is investigative journalist Mark Williams-Thomas, who said this week that in his view, the plane crash was almost certainly an intentional act by the pilot.

As evidence, he said a piece of the wings found in Reunion Island, 3,000 miles from the search area, was "in an extended position that only a pilot could've done" and that the only explanation for the wing's position at the time of impact was that the plane had been brought down intentionally.

Larry Vance, a Canadian flight accident investigator, also thinks the pilot should be held accountable for the crash.

"There's no other explanation for it," he said. "One of the pilots landed [the plane] intentionally on the water so it would sink and would never be seen again."

An unnamed pilot told the Daily Mirror it is possible to successfully bring a plane down on water, as evidenced by the actions of Captain Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger, a US pilot who became a hero after landing his damaged plane on the Hudson River in New York.

"The impact on the water would be survivable - which we've seen from Sully," the pilot said.

MH370: Possible new part found in South Africa

Images of a plane part that could be from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have been posted on a South African aviation forum.

A message on chat forum Aviation Communication (Avcom), under the topic name: "Aircraft parts wash up on local beach 每 Transkei", shows pictures of plane debris said to have been washed up on a beach outside East London, on the south-east coast of South Africa.

Forum member Steve Onions said: "This morning, a local person found some items that washed up on a beach on the Transkei coast near East London that looked like they could be from an aircraft. They sent the cell phone pics taken of these parts to one of our local aviators and the pics have been sent to our local [air traffic control] who will circulate them and notify the relevant authorities."

Other posts said the parts looked like "wing to body fairing or flap track canoe fairing" which could have come either from a Boeing 747 or 777.

The MH370, which went missing during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing three years ago, was a Boeing 777.

A member of the Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) in Malaysia contacted the forum on Saturday with advice on how to handle the debris so as not to damage or contaminate it, reports Free Malaysia Today.

However, no one is travelling to South Africa to see the parts yet as "it is still too premature in the course of this discovery", it added.

Flight MH370 vanished on 8 March 2014 with 227 passengers and 12 crew on board. It is believed to have crashed somewhere in the southern Indian Ocean.

A multi-million pound hunt for the missing plane officially ended two weeks ago, after an extensive three-year search of 46,000sq-miles of the Indian Ocean west of Australia failed to find the wreckage.

Relatives of the passengers and crew lost on Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 are urging authorities to resume the search for the missing plane.

Sheryl Keen, of the international victims' advocacy group Voice370, said she will personally hand Malaysian transport minister Liow Tiong Lai letters from relatives during his visit to Perth this week, Yahoo News reports.

She said: "The general content is urging him to continue the search. I do believe some of them are quite heartfelt and others are quite brief."

Voice370 said it will continue its appeal for Malaysia and Australia to resume the search for the plane, which was called off last week.

It said: "A quick decision to extend the search would avoid the immediate demobilisation of the equipment on board the search vessel, Fugro Equator, and additional costs at a later date for mobilisation of vessels."

Flight MH370 vanished with 239 people on board on 8 March 2014, after deviating from its scheduled course during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing.

The extensive three-year search of 46,000sq-miles of the Indian Ocean west of Australia failed to find the plane.

Australian transport minister Darren Chester said the decision to stop the search "was not taken lightly."

He added: "I understand the disappointment and frustration felt by the families. Not knowing the final resting place of their loved ones only adds to the tragedy of the situation."

MH370: What next in hunt for missing plane?

The Australian and Malaysian governments announced on Tuesday that the official search for MH370, which disappeared on 8 March 2014, had come to an end. Authorities are seemingly no closer to discovering the ultimate fate of the plane than they were almost three years previously.

Relatives of the missing passengers had hoped that several pieces of debris from the plane found along the coast of east Africa could lead search teams to the location of the wreck, but investigators from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) now believe they were looking in the wrong place.

Based on the drift patterns of the debris and currents in the region, the ATSB has calculated that the wreckage is located in an area immediately north of the official search zone, leading some relatives to call for a new search based on the recalculated zone.

However, Australia's Transport Minister, Darren Chester, confirmed that the government did not consider the ATSB's conclusions sufficient grounds to extend the costly search, adding that resuming the operation was "primarily Malaysia's call", the BBC reports.

Malaysian officials have echoed their Australian counterparts, saying that only concrete evidence pointing to a specific location would prompt a new search. Relatives of the passengers have expressed scepticism that Malaysia ever will pick up the torch.

KS Narendran from Chennai, India, whose wife was among the passengers on MH370, told The Guardian: "Malaysia has from very early on given the impression that either it was not up to the task, or was keen to fold up the search and investigation."

The best hope for the families of those on board the missing plane now lies in privately-funded search efforts.

The Malaysian government's announcement last week that it is prepared to pay "millions" of ringgits, equalling hundreds of thousands of pounds, for information leading to MH370's recovery is sure to invigorate private parties who want to finally solve the mystery.

There has been one unusual beneficiary of the otherwise fruitless search for MH370, says Reuters 每 the region's fishing fleets, which stand to increase their profits thanks to the unprecedentedly detailed images of the Indian Ocean's underwater landscape produced by the search teams.

Charitha Pattiaratchi, professor of Coastal Oceanography at the University of Western Australia, told Reuters that the new maps revealed the location of undersea mountains that attract schools of fish.

"If you know where these mounts are, it means money," he said. "They are areas where you can find high-priced fish."

Malaysia will offer a cash reward to private parties who can provide "substantial information or evidence" about the location of missing Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370, deputy transport minister Abdul Aziz Kaprawi announced today.

"We are opening up the options because the government of Malaysia is committed to continue the search," he said.

"There will be cash rewards in the millions [of Malaysian ringgits] for those who are able to find substantial information or evidence like the fuselage."

Kaprawi also appealed to experts from various relevant industries "such as the oil and gas sector, mining and those in maritime and defence industries" to assist with the search, SBS reports.

On Tuesday, Australian, Chinese and Malaysian investigators announced an end to the unsuccessful 120m hunt to find Flight MH370, which went missing with 239 people on board during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014.

Small pieces of potential debris have subsequently washed up, but the main wreckage has never been located, despite an international search of 46,000sq-miles of the southern Indian Ocean.

Families of the victims of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have urged officials to continue the search.

The joint investigation between Australia, China and Malaysia was called off this morning after nearly three years of scouring 46,000sq-miles in the southern Indian Ocean. The location of the plane's wreckage is still a mystery.

"Today the last search vessel has left the underwater search area," investigators said. "Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has not been located＃

"Despite every effort using the best science available, cutting-edge technology, as well as modelling and advice from highly skilled professionals who are the best in their field, unfortunately, the search has not been able to locate the aircraft."

Voice370, which represents the relatives, criticised the decision and urged officials to continue the search.

It said. "In our view, extending the search to the new area defined by the experts is an inescapable duty owed to the flying public in the interest of aviation safety＃

"Having already searched 120,000 square kilometres, stopping at this stage is nothing short of irresponsible and betrays a shocking lack of faith in the data, tools and recommendations of an array of official experts assembled by the authorities themselves."

The group also accused investigators of not being willing to investigate new possible sites. "Expecting to determine the 'precise location of the aircraft' before continuing the search was at best an erroneous expectation and at worst a clever formulation to bury the search," it said.

"Why would you search if you already knew the precise location of the aircraft?"

MH370 vanished with 239 people on board in March 2014, after it changed course during a scheduled flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The radio equipment was switched off and the Boeing 777 flew across Malaysia to the Andaman Sea, south-east of the Bay of Bengal, before heading south, The Australian says.

MH370: Is missing Malaysia Airlines jet about to be found?

Investigators looking for missing Malaysia Airline flight MH370 made a "high-speed dash" to a new search site, the Daily Beast reports.

On Friday, Dutch-owned vessel Equator reportedly raced to an area in the southern Indian Ocean recently identified as being a more likely location for the plane's debris. It pushed further north on Saturday before tracking back slightly.

Dr Richard Cole, of University College London, who has been following the hunt, said: "After its run north, Equator has now tracked back south-west at high speed to a point at 35.3 degrees south where it seems that the [autonomous underwater vehicle] is deployed again."

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is directing the search, admitted in late December that the area it has scoured for 26 months was unlikely to contain the wreckage of the MH370.

Spokesman Dan O'Malley told the Beast yesterday: "Equator is completing its final swing and gathering some sonar data in areas we haven't previously completed. Equator's search operations are expected to be completed by the end of January."

Flight MH370 disappeared without trace while flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014. There were with 239 people on board.

The current search, which began in October 2014, is scheduled to end this month. However, families of the victims are stepping up pressure to fund a new investigation in an area to the north of the previous search site.

Voice 370, which represents the relatives, said: "Extending the search to the new area defined by experts is an inescapable duty owed to the flying public in the interest of aviation safety."

MH370: Search 'to continue after funding runs out'

Malaysian and Australian officials say the hunt for missing flight MH370 will continue after the original 46,000sq-mile search has concluded, the Daily Beast reports.

Since June 2014, two ships using sonar have been combing the area in the southern Indian Ocean where the Malaysia Airline plane was believed to have come down.

The search, which has so far cost 122m, is almost over - the Daily Mail says it could end in just two weeks - but nothing has been found.

Last July, Australia, Malaysia and China agreed that "in the absence of credible new evidence leading to the identification of a specific location of the aircraft, the search would be suspended on completion of the existing search area".

When asked about this by the Daily Beast this month, the Joint Agency Co-ordination Centre in charge of the search said the position of the three countries "has not changed".

However, says the website, "24 hours later", the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) told the website: "Ministers have reiterated that this does not mean the termination of the search," prompting it to ask: "Will Malaysia fund a new search?"

The Beast also claims there will be a continuation of the "cutting-edge scientific effort" to find the plane's wreckage, which utilises "resources from all over the world, including from the US". Tests are being carried out to establish how the pieces of wreckage found so far might have floated.

The ATSB confirmed two weeks ago it now believes the entire search has been a waste of time because the ships have been looking in the wrong place, CNN reported. Investigators also did not believe the wreckage would be found in the last few weeks of looking.

It said: "Given the high confidence in the search undertaken to date, the experts agreed that the previously defined [search] area is unlikely to contain the missing aircraft."

New analysis of ocean currents at the time of the plane's disappearance and the positions of the 20 or so pieces of wreckage washed up thousands of miles away suggest the actual crash site was 9,600 miles further north.

In fact, says the Beast, scientist now have a far more precise estimate of where the plane came down than the one used to determine where the sonar survey took place.

Responding to the ATSB report in December, Australia's transport and infrastructure minister, Darren Chester, said the search would not be extended without new evidence.

Putting himself at odds with the ATSB, Chester said: "We are very close to completing the 120,000 square kilometre underwater search area, and we remain hopeful that we will locate the aircraft."

Flight MH370 disappeared on 8 March 2014, flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

A private company is likely to take up the search for the wreckage of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, according to a distinguished aviation safety expert.

John Goglia, a member of the US National Transportation Safety Board, says the private sector will step in after the official Australian-led salvage efforts are called off.

"The search will continue, but it will be privately run," he told Popular Mechanics. "It'll be smaller and more focused, but that's probably better."

Several aviation experts have suggested that Boeing is the most likely candidate as the plane, which disappeared on a routine flight from Beijing to Kuala Lumpur in March 2014 with 239 people on board, was a Boeing 777. The US manufacturer has not commented on the rumours.

A joint search operation by Australian, Malaysian and Chinese authorities, led by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), is due to end in January, despite evidence that a revised search zone could hold the key to the plane's final resting place.

In its latest report, the ATSB concluded that investigators have been looking in the wrong place for the wreckage of the plane and called for an extension of the search operation to examine the recalculated search area, which lies to the north of the current site.

The Australian government has rejected the idea on the grounds that the new evidence is not sufficiently specific to warrant further funding.

MH370: Families hit out at decision to abandon search

Families of the 238 people who died on Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 have condemned the Australian government's announcement that the search for the plane is coming to an end, with investigators still no closer to finding the crash site.

Flight MH370 lost contract with air traffic controllers and went off radar in March 2014, before apparently crashing somewhere over the Indian Ocean, where the hunt has been focussed.

This week, however, a panel of experts from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) concluded the plane "is probably not in the stretch of ocean a $200 million, Australian-led search effort has combed for the past two years," the Sydney Morning Herald reports.

Based on new analysis of MH370's final moments and drift patterns of debris found on east African beaches, investigators now believe the likely location is within a 15,000sq-mile area to the north of the current search zone and have recommended that salvage teams be redeployed there.

However, the final resting place of the passengers and crew is likely to remain a mystery, as the Australian government confirmed that countries working on the search were planning to end the costly operation in January unless the ATSB could produce a more specific location.

Families of the victims responded with anger and disbelief to the news. Danica Weeks, whose husband Paul was among the passengers, described the decision as "a kick in the guts", the Herald reports.

"We've had so much hope and then each time we've got the hope up and it's been washed away," she said.

Jiang Hui, whose 72-year-old mother Cuiyun was on the flight, told Fairfax Media "three governments all told us the search would be continuous, would not end, and would not be given up on".

He said: "It is a promise to all families and to the international community."

MH370 search: What do families of passengers hope to find in Madagascar?

Relatives of passengers lost on Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 are in Madagascar to personally search for debris from the missing aircraft.

The group of families, known as Voice 370, has called on the governments of Malaysia, China and Australia to search for wreckage along the east African coast.

"All debris thought to be from the plane has so far been found in east Africa," says the BBC. At least six pieces from the area are considered "certain or highly likely" to have come from the missing flight.

 Flight MH370 disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014. A search operation was launched shortly afterwards, but the main wreckage is yet to be found. Investigators believe it crashed into the Indian Ocean, killing all 239 passengers and crew on board.

The search is expected to be suspended by around January or February 2017, when an Australian-led team completes its scouring of a 46,000sq-mile target area.

However, Voice 370 has expressed its disappointment at the scale and effectiveness of the search effort.

 Grace Subathirai Nathan, whose mother, Anne Daisy, was on the flight, has made the self-funded trip along with three relatives from Malaysia, two from China and one from France.

They plan to speak to as many people as possible on the island and hand out leaflets about how to recognise plane parts.

"We can talk to people who work as fishermen, people who live on the coastline. We hope that we can raise awareness, teach them how to identify debris, how to collect debris, what to do with it when they find it," she said.

MH370: Google Earth used to pinpoint possible crash site

An American statistician claims he has uncovered clues to the final resting place of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 using Google Earth.

Mike Chillit says that based on his research, the crash site is miles from the Australian Transport Search Bureau (ATSB)'s current search zone.

Using historical imaging data from Google Earth, Chillit has identified several examples of potential debris around Saint Brandon, a cluster of a minuscule uninhabited archipelago 200 miles north of Mauritius.

Combining the location of the possible debris with the drift patterns of ocean currents, he suggests the probable crash site is far north of the current search site, which so far is located around 800 miles west-northwest of Carnarvon, in Western Australia.

"There is no funding for searching beyond the current 120,000 square kilometre area," the Daily Mail reports.

Chillit is attempting to raise money for a private search if the ATSB is unwilling to investigate his theory.

"I try not to take myself too seriously, but I think this is worth investigating," he said.

Chillit also told News Corp that a previous attempt to use Google Earth in his investigation found debris on the French-administered island of Reunion a week before a piece of flaperon was discovered there in July 2015.

The ATSB recently confirmed that a piece of debris discovered on Mauritius in May was a part of a Boeing 777 left outboard flap and that its serial number identified it as belonging to MH370.

Items washed up on the island of Pemba, off the coast of Tanzania, and on Reunion have also been confirmed to be from the plane.

So far, 22 pieces of potential debris have been passed on to investigators, The Guardian reports, 14 of them found by US lawyer-turned-wreck hunter Blaine Gibson.

A new theory that blames a windscreen heater fire for the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 is at least plausible, according to one leading aviation expert.

The theory has been proposed as part of a thesis by Mick Gilbert, described by Australian site News.com.au as an "aviation enthusiast". He says problems with windscreen heaters, including fires, have plagued Boeing jets.

Gilbert suggests MH370's windscreen heater caught fire, knocking out the communications equipment in the cabin and depressurising the cockpit. He believes the crew oxygen system was already leaking after earlier maintenance work.

The change in cabin pressure would also have unlocked the door to the rest of the plane, says Gilbert, causing it to depressurise as well. The lack of oxygen would have rendered the crew 每 and presumably passengers 每 unconscious.

Gilbert suggests one pilot or co-pilot managed to stay awake. He could have noticed his colleagues becoming faint and used deep, rapid breathing to ensure he stayed alert.

With the fire extinguished, says Gilbert, the pilot discovered he had no workable instruments and no realistic chance of manually landing the plane.

Aware that he was flying near a heavily populated part of Malaysia, says Gilbert, the pilot instead pointed the jet in a direction that would ensure it landed in the ocean without causing loss of life on the ground, before lapsing into unconsciousness.

The Malaysia Airlines flight went missing in 2014 with 239 people on board. After many months, pieces of debris were found thousands of miles from what is believed to be the crash site. Some pieces are thought to show burn marks.

Other theories accounting for the loss of MH370 have suggested the pilot deliberately crashed the aircraft. Reports claim American investigators found a route matching the plane's eventual flight path on a simulator kept at home by the pilot, Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah.

Gilbert's theory provides an explanation with no malicious action involved 每 and would even make Shah, or one of the other cockpit crew, a hero.

US safety consultant John Cox told Australian media he believes the theory is at least plausible. He said he had previously believed the most likely explanation was deliberate action by Shah but would now reserve judgement.

Aircraft manufacturer Boeing and Malaysia Airlines have previously said their goal is to determine what happened to the flight and why.

MH370: Why investigators think no one was at the controls

A new report on the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 concludes the pilots were not at the controls during the jet's last descent.

Following a fresh examination of the final series of satellite handshakes between the Boeing 777 and ground stations, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the search, found the plane may have been airborne for about 20 minutes after its second engine died and that it appeared to have descended very swiftly.

This led investigators to conclude that the plane was not guided by a pilot but simply crashed. The conclusion supports previous theories ATSB has put forward about the final moments of the flight and contradicts other theories that the plane might have come to rest in the Indian Ocean after a controlled descent.

The report said that debris from the plane's right wing flap indicate that it was in a cruising position rather than a landing position when it was damaged. "The wing flap debris analysis reduced the likelihood of end-of-flight scenarios involving flap deployment," the report said.

As international aviation experts assembled in Canberra, Australia, to discuss whether it is possible to redefine the search zone, the report's findings suggest the underwater search for the missing plane in the southern Indian Ocean has been conducted in the right area.

There is a significant financial dimension to this aspect of the investigation: further searches beyond the current zone would cost about 20m, reports the Daily Telegraph.

The Malaysia Airlines aircraft disappeared in March 2014 during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. It was carrying 239 passengers and crew.

MH370: Hunt for missing plane 'to be extended'

Reports claim a plan is emerging to extend the hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370.

Investigators are searching a 46,000sq-mile patch of the southern Indian Ocean, roughly equivalent to the size of Greece, but it had been scheduled to finish this month after failing to find the plane's crash site.

However, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation says a proposal is being drawn up to shift investigations north 每 at a potential cost of AUS$30,000 (18.8m).

Starting tomorrow, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which has been leading the investigation, will host a three-day "back to first principles" meeting of experts in the Australian capital of Canberra.

The aim "is to shape a proposal for the Transport Minister to take to his Malaysian and Chinese counterparts," the ABC reports.

At the same time, Malaysia Airlines has agreed to allow lawyers of the victims access to "potentially sensational" company records that have only previously been released to Malaysian police.

The documents reportedly include medical and personal records for the MH370's captain and co-pilot as well as maintenance log books of the Boeing 777.

Flight MH370 disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014. There were 239 people on board.

Bad weather conditions are hampering progress in the underwater search effort for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Investigators were due to comb a 46,000sq-mile area of the southern Indian Ocean by December, but the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the search, says it will now take until "around January/February 2017".

More than two and a half years have passed since the flight and its 239 passengers and crew disappeared en route from Beijing to Kuala Lumpur and relatives of the victims are no closer to discovering what happened to their loved ones. Several pieces of debris have been uncovered, but the bulk of the plane is yet to be found.

Experts have pored over satellite, radar and aircraft performance data and believe the plane entered the sea close to a "long but narrow arc" in the southern Indian Ocean.

However, there are a number of interpretations about how the aircraft might have come down. Here are the top three theories.

Death dive with no pilot in control

The ATSB has suggested an unresponsive pilot scenario.. Analysis of the Satcom data suggests there was no human intervention during the last five and a half hours of the journey, it says, especially at the end, when the aircraft is likely to have exhausted its fuel. With nobody to man the controls, the plane would have crashed into the sea in what some have described as a "death dive".

In this theory, a pilot hijacked the aircraft after the last goodnight to Kuala Lumpur air traffic control, flew it via a pre-planned route to the southern Indian Ocean and then carried out a controlled ditching in the water. However, ongoing analysis of a wing flap washed ashore in Tanzania appears to support the theory of a death dive. Peter Foley, the head of ATSB's search team, told the Australian Associated Press the flap was retracted, rather than deployed, when the plane hit the water, suggesting there was no controlled landing.

A third theory combines the two above. In this scenario, the pilot hijacked the plane but simply allowed it to run out of fuel without intervening, causing a death dive.

An amateur investigator who has been compared to Indiana Jones has vowed to continue his search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Blaine Gibson, 58, of Seattle, dumbfounded professional sleuths in February when he found a piece of the aircraft during a self-funded search.

The triangular panel, stencilled with the words "no step", has since been confirmed as "almost certainly" a horizontal stabiliser from a Flight 370 wing.

Speaking in Canberra during a visit to the official search headquarters, the lawyer now says he won't quit his one-man investigation until the mystery is solved.

"I always love travel with a purpose," said Gibson, who has visited 177 countries, "and solving the mystery of Malaysia 370 is a purpose ... until I or someone else finds out what happened to the plane and those on board."

Like action hero Indy, Gibson wears a bomber jacket, a Fedora and hunts hidden treasures. But in contrast to his fictional counterpart, he had to concede defeat on his search for the legendary Ark of the Covenant, which is said to contain the Ten Commandments.

"The Ark of the Covenant - I did not find it," he told AP. "However, I do believe that it's in Ethiopia somewhere."

Flight MH370 disappeared with 239 people on board while flying to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur in March 2014.

In an online essay about his search, Gibson describes at length how he "combed beaches for a year to find anything that looks like it could be possibly be from an airplane".

Authorities have also confirmed that a piece of debris found on the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius came from the missing Boeing 777.

On Friday, experts from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said a piece of wing flap that washed up on the island was definitely from the MH370.

Investigators were able to track a part number found on the flap back to the missing plane, the ATSB said.

A "unique work order number" placed on the flap by its manufacturer corresponded to MH370.

The new piece adds to the growing collection of debris that has washed ashore from the missing plane.

Investigators previously confirmed a part of the MH370 had been discovered on the French island of Reunion in July 2015, while an outboard flap, a very large piece of debris, was discovered on Pemba, off Tanzania in June.

According to Sky "investigators are also examining a piece found in Mozambique, in southern Africa."

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370: Is China's search ship spying on the Australian army?

Security experts claim the Chinese government ship searching for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has probably spent more time spying on the Australian army.

Analysis published in The Australian found that in the seven months since the Dong Hai Jiu 101 arrived in the Australian port city of Fremantle, it has spent between 17 and 30 days on search efforts, leading to speculation the ship is in fact spying.

"I would be surprised if a vessel like the Dong Hai Jiu 101 did not have an intelligence collection role," said Clive Williams, a former Australian army officer who was director of security intelligence.

China had the highest number of passengers onboard the Boeing 777, which disappeared with 239 people on board in March 2014, during a scheduled flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The country has contributed 15.3m of the 138m budget for the search efforts.

Meanwhile, Australian authorities have cast doubt on the theory that the jet may have suffered a fire before it went missing.

Debris collected earlier this month appeared to show burn marks. However, authorities now say they were caused by resin on the debris, not fire, and that there is no evidence yet that the debris came from MH370.

"At this stage it is not possible to determine whether the debris is from MH370 or indeed even a Boeing 777," the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said.

Australia, China and Malaysia have agreed that in the absence of "credible new information", the search should end later this year.

Analysis of wreckage thought to be from the missing Malaysia Airways flight MH370 appears to support the theory that the Boeing 777 was flown into the ocean on purpose, say reports.

Tests conducted on a part of the plane's wing, which was found off the coast of Tanzania, support the theory that MH370 plunged into the ocean in a "death dive," Australia's 7 News reports.

"Investigators have confirmed that the wing flap was not deployed at the time of impact, ruling out a controlled crash landing in the ocean as that would have required the flaps to be deployed," the site says. "Instead it suggests the missing flight plunged into the ocean at high speed, breaking up on impact."

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau said the debris was still being tested, but Peter Foley, the head of the organisation's search team, told the Australian Associated Press the flap was retracted, rather than deployed, when the plane hit the water.

"A pilot attempting a soft landing would have extended the wing flaps," 7 News says.

The report comes amid claims the pilot, Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, was "heartbroken" over the failure of an alleged relationship at the time of the MH370's disappearance, the Daily Mail reports.

According to the paper, "Shah was messaging [married friend] Fatima Pardi about a 'personal matter' just two days before the plane vanished.

"Captain Shah is also believed to have split from his wife Faizah Hanun," the site adds, "although they lived under the same roof in Kuala Lumpur."

Five new pieces of debris thought to be linked to missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have been recovered on the coast of Madagascar.

Significantly, two of the small fragments appear to be burnt.

The debris was found near Sainte Luce, in south-eastern Madagascar, by three locals and passed on to Blaine Gibson, an American lawyer-turned-adventurer who has spent the past year scouring the coast for debris belonging to flight MH370.

The top layer of paint on two of the fragments was "scorched black", Gibson told Australian's Channel 7 news.

"If confirmed to have come from the plane, it will be the first evidence that a fire - possibly an electrical one - brought down MH370 rather than the actions of a suicidal pilot," NEWS.au reports.

Australian investigators will now analyse the pieces to see if they come from the plane, and whether they indeed point to a fire on board.

It is easy to understand the frustration of the victim's families, some of whom have accused the authorities of failing to do enough to locate the crash site, says the BBC's transport correspondent, Richard Westcott.

If the Australian-led search effort in the Indian Ocean wraps up as scheduled later this year, discoveries like these will be all the evidence we have about MH370's ultimate fate, "yet the only person looking for them is a self-funded, amateur American enthusiast".

Since becoming an adventurer, the former Seattle attorney has also travelled Ethiopia looking for the biblical Ark of the Covenant and studied the lost civilisations of South America.

For the past year, he has been combing the beaches of Mauritius, Mozambique and Madagascar in a one-man quest to unlock the mystery of the missing plane after becoming obsessed with the case.

"I was touched by the plight of the families," said the 58-year-old, who has no formal training in air crash investigation. He told the BBC earlier this year: "I just couldn't imagine how they felt, knowing nothing about their loved ones for a year＃ So I just decided, I'll go look for it for myself.

"I love travelling, and I love solving mysteries, and I love to do good things for people."

Gibson has found 13 suspected MH370 fragments that have washed up on East African beaches, including wing fragments, a piece of a seat and personal belongings of passengers, such as a bag and a laptop case.

Meanwhile, a piece of debris found on a Tanzanian beach in June has been confirmed as a wing part belonging to missing Malaysian Airways flight MH370, Malaysian officials have said.

A report on the find, issued by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the search efforts, concluded that the component belonged the right outboard flap of a Boeing 777. MH370 is believed to be the only missing Boeing 777 in the world.

The wing part, which was found on Pemba Island, off the coast of Tanzania, "was confirmed as originating from the aircraft registered 9M-MRO and operating as MH370", The Guardian reports.

Few confirmed traces have been found of the aircraft that disappeared soon after taking off from Kuala Lumpur on 8 March 2014, with 239 passengers and crew on board. Twenty-seven fragments from the aircraft have been found along the coast of East Africa.

So far, only one of the pieces examined by investigators has been publicly confirmed as belonging to the missing plane 每 a wing part called a flaperon that washed up on the French administered island of Reunion in July 2015. However, the ATSB has said that they believe four more fragments are "almost certainly" debris from the missing plane, whose crash site in the Indian Ocean is still a mystery.

MH370: Have search teams been looking in the wrong place?

An Australian mathematician who helped calculate the search zone for investigators looking for the wreckage of Flight MH370 now believes that the plane actually crashed further to the north-east.

Neil Gordon is the head of the Data and Information Fusion department at Australia's Defense Science Technology Group, which was brought in in the aftermath of the plane's disappearance in March 2014.

Based on the seven pings sent out by the plane in the six hours before it went off radar, Gordon's team calculated an arc which marked the point where the final ping was transmitted.

"The result was a probability 'heat map' showing where on the surface of the ocean the plane might have impacted," Popular Mechanics reports. However, in his first press interview, Gordon told the magazine that he had only ever estimated the chance of the wreckage being within the boundaries of the 120,000 sq km search zone to be in the "mid 70s".

The final ping was consistent with a sharp descent, appearing to rule out a theory that pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah held the plane in a glide after the jet's fuel ran dry, which might have caused the plane to crash further to the south-east. Gordon believes that the answer lies instead to the north-east of the current search zone, where the plane would have crashed if it had stayed in the air slightly longer than thought.

"If you look at the probability distribution, it would say, 'Go up north,'" Gordon said.

Gordon's hypothesis would explain why the crash site has eluded the efforts of the Australian-led recovery effort. So far, only isolated fragments from the wreckage have turned up along the East African coast 每 and time is now running out. Search operations are set to wrap up in December.

The captain of doomed Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 messaged a female friend two days before the plane's disappearance regarding a "personal matter", it has been claimed.

Fatima Pardi, a 35-year-old mother of three, says that she and Shah met when volunteering together during the Malaysian elections and began exchanging WhatsApp messages.

Their friendship "quickly developed to a level where Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah was playing an almost fatherly role to the children," reports The Australian. Shah would regularly visit her home, but Pardi says the pair were not having an affair.

"This is not a lovey-dovey story," she insisted. " He told me he saw potential in me and that he would help me build a better future for myself and my children."

Pardi admits that Shah messaged her two days before MH370 vanished from radar on 8 March 2014, but would not divulge details of the exchange, saying she feared it could be "misunderstood".

"That last conversation was just between me and him," she said. "I don't want to talk about it." She is understood to have spoken to Malaysian investigators on four occasions about her relationship with Shah.

Shah's personal life and mental state in the run-up to the disappearance of the aircraft has come under close scrutiny, with a leading theory suggesting that the crash was caused deliberately. A route similar to the one that MH370 took when it went off-course over the Indian Ocean was found in Shah's home flight simulator, but his family and friends have repeatedly insisted that he was not stressed or disturbed in the months before the crash.

A year-long investigation into Shah＊s personality by the Malaysian transport ministry found that there was "no known history of apathy, anxiety or irritability" and "no significant changes in his lifestyle, interpersonal conflict or family stresses" in the months before the crash.

"There were no behavioural signs of social isolation, change in habits or interest, self-neglect, drug or alcohol abuse" in either the captain, first officer or the ten other members of cabin crew who went down with the plane＊s 227 passengers, it found.

Shortly after the disappearance, several media reports claimed that Shah＊s wife, Faizah, had left him a few weeks before. Their family has denied this, saying that they were a happy couple who had nothing beyond "normal" marital issues.

Several aviation experts still believe that a deliberate manoeuvre on the part of the plane＊s captain is the strongest theory to explain the aircraft＊s movements in its final moments, the BBC reports.

But even if Shah is proven to have been in control of the plane as it plummeted to Earth, this could be evidence of either a suicidal dive or his desperate last-minute efforts to avert such a crash. While some believe Shah was in control of the plane, gliding it onto the water himself, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is leading the search, says the SATCOM data matches most closely with a scenario in which there was no human intervention during the last moments of the flight.

MH370: Can barnacles help solve the mystery?

Barnacles could provide evidence of exactly where missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 landed, says a scientist specialising in marine environments.

Professor Patrick De Deckker, from the Australian National University, studied a crustacean found on a piece of the plane's flaperon and said the animal had started growing in warmer waters but that most growth occurred in colder waters, at the latitude of Perth or lower. Then, during the final stages of its life, it grew again in warmer waters, he added.

De Deckker told the Courier Mail his findings were "consistent with the current search area and the drift modelling" of investigators.

However, he believes they will contradict those of French colleagues who were also studying the barnacles. Their research has yet to be released.

De Deckker also stressed that his analysis of calcium and magnesium ratios in the shell were not definitive, the length of the barnacle's life was not clear and growth also depended on food availability.

The flaperon, which forms part of an aircraft's wing, was discovered on Reunion Island in July 2015, 16 months after flight MH370 disappeared in March 2014, while flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

The focus of the search is a 46,000 square mile area of the Southern Indian Ocean, where De Deckker believes the barnacle grew for a considerable period of time.

MH370: No evidence to support death dive theory, says expert

A top aviation expert says there is no evidence to support the theory that missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 crashed in a "fast and unpiloted descent".

John Cox, a US air safety consultant, said the satellite tracking data was not strong enough to conclude either that the plane crashed with no one at the helm, or the "increasingly canvassed competing theory" that Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah flew the plane to the end, possibly in a controlled glide.

"I do not believe there is sufficient data in the Inmarsat [satellite tracking] data to draw any conclusion on the rate of descent," he told The Australian.

The former pilot, who has been involved in some of the most significant crash investigations in recent history, said the most likely explanation for flight MH370's disappearance was that Zaharie hijacked the aircraft, but how it finally came down had "not been determined", The Australian says.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is leading the investigation, refuted Cox's claims and repeated its claim that the MH370's final two satellite communications indicate the plane "was in a high, and increasing, rate of descent".

Determining the manner in which the plane crashed will help investigators conducting the underwater search for the plane to refine their target area. Currently, the search is based on what the media has dubbed the "death dive" theory.

The Malaysia Airlines plane disappeared with 239 people on board while flying to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur in March 2014.

MH370: No mystery to flight's disappearance, says expert

There is "absolutely no mystery to what happened" to missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 - the pilot landed it on the ocean, according to one expert.

Larry Vance, a Canadian flight-accident investigator who has worked on more than 200 aviation disasters, says the plane was deliberately brought down to the ocean level in such a way as to ensure it sunk intact.

Although only a few pieces of wreckage have turned up so far, Vance claims the items 每 parts of the flaps and flaperons 每 are enough to account for the plane's final moments.

Saying the flaps are used to lower speed in the final stages of a flight, he told Der Spiegel they must have been intentionally activated in the moments before the crash.

"The photos clearly show that the trailing edges of these devices are severely damaged whereas the leading edges are virtually unharmed. This is an extremely significant piece of information," he said, adding that the flaps could only have been extended by somebody in the cockpit.

"Somebody wanted that airplane to land on the surface of the ocean in such a way that the fuselage stayed intact, so that everything would go to the bottom, never to be found or seen again."

The only mystery was "why somebody would do this", he said.

Data from pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah's home flight simulator revealed he had plotted a course over the Indian Ocean ending near the area where MH370 is thought to have entered the water, leading to suggestions he may have crashed the plane deliberately.

However, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is leading the search, believes there was no pilot at the controls during the plane's final moments, based on data obtained from automated signals sent out by the aircraft.

MH370 plummeted out of sky 'at up to 20,000ft a minute'

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 plummeted out of the sky at speeds of up to 20,000ft a minute, according to new analysis of the plane's automated signals.

Defence scientists believe the aircraft ran out of fuel and the two engines flamed out within 15 minutes of one another, causing the plane to lose lift.

At this point, its nose would have dropped and it would have fallen in a series of downward swoops, reports The Australian, which was briefed on the analysis.

"As it gathered speed, it would have gained lift and climbed again. As that speed fell off, its nose would have dropped rapidly once more, the aircraft falling into another steep dive," says the newspaper. "That process is likely to have been repeated until it hit the water, probably with one wing down. The impact would have been catastrophic."

The discovery of wreckage from the flight over the past year suggests that it broke up on impact.

Greg Hood, the chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is leading the search, said the new data suggests there was no pilot at the controls at the end of the flight. This is contrary to another theory that a pilot might have crashed the plane outside the current search area.

The analysis, which includes extensive testing by Boeing, indicates that the plane descended at a rate of between 12,000ft a minute and 20,000ft a minute, much faster than a normal landing of around 2,000ft a minute.

The bureau has not ruled out that idea that the pilot was responsible for the jet's disappearance.

Relatives of the victims have urged the Malaysian government to examine more than 160 items found in Madagascar, close to where a fragment suspected to be from the plane's wing was found.

Independent investigator Blaine Gibson has been searching beaches from Malaysia to Mauritius for clues to MH370's whereabouts.

He discovered debris in Madagascar that Australian authorities have said "almost certainly" belong to the airliner and has since documented other items, including bags, a shoe and a camera case, found on the beach that he believes should be investigated.

Victim support group Air Crash Support Group Australia says Gibson shared the images with the family members of passengers.

"He has been careful to point out that these may well have nothing to do with the personal effects of passengers on MH370," it said. "Nonetheless, since they were all found in Riake Beach, Ile Ste Marie, (Nosy Boraha), Madagascar, the same 18km-long beach [11 miles] where he found debris that is under investigation as potential debris from 9M-MRO, there is the possibility that these items may belong to passengers on MH370."

The search for the crashed Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 has been dogged by problems from the start, but the news that FBI evidence was suppressed by the Malaysian government undermines the efforts of investigators, an aviation expert has said.

Last week, it emerged that FBI evidence, which was presented to the Malaysian government and obtained by New York magazine, appeared to show that MH370 pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah had practiced a flight over the Indian Ocean on his home flight simulator a month before the Malaysian Airlines flight vanished.

"From the outset, Malaysia's handling of the investigation has been botched, and the handling of an FBI report into the captain's flight simulator just adds to the sorry tale," said Geoffrey Thomas, the aviation editor of the West Australian newspaper.

"Of greater concern to Australians is that Malaysia's apparent reluctance to be more open is tarnishing the reputation of [Australia's] crash investigators."

So what does the evidence indicate? According to aviation expert Neil Hansford, the files strengthen the claim that the crash was due to a "human event" and could possibly be "murder-suicide".

"I have had no doubt in all of this that the disappearance was linked to a human decision being made, not a technical fault," Hansford told the New Daily.

"The pilot took enough fuel to go up to Beijing and back and he still had another seven hours of fuel. Someone should have asked when he left Kuala Lumpur and they knew he was carrying so much fuel.

"Normally you only carry the trip fuel plus your alternate airport, plus ten per cent.

"This guy filled his aircraft up to the brim and that's why it flew for so long after he went on his little mystery tour."

Malaysian police have continued to dismiss reports the plane was deliberately steered into the sea by a pilot intent on mass murder suicide, Time says.

Malaysia's transport minister has confirmed Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah used his home simulator to mark out a course into the Indian Ocean shortly before Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 vanished.

However, said Liow Tiong Lai, there is no evidence the pilot followed the flight path and it was "one of many" he had simulated.

Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Centre, which is overseeing the search for the missing aircraft, confirmed the news last month, after it was reported in New York magazine. Yesterday's announcement is the first time Malaysian authorities have supported this, says Wall Street Journal.

The Sydney Morning Herald says there were significant differences between the simulated flight and actual path taken, such as the endpoint of the simulated flight being 932 miles from the remote patch of ocean where the plane is believed to have gone down.

Liow also dismissed reports that new evidence pointed to a "rogue pilot" having hijacked MH370 and crashed it into the sea.

Australia's 60 Minutes news programme said last week that the condition of a section of wing thought to be from the MH370 was "definite evidence" that the aircraft had been deliberately flown into the sea.

Flight MH370 disappeared with 239 people on board while flying to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur in March 2014.

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 was deliberately flown into the sea, a leading air-crash investigator has claimed.

Larry Vance, who has led more than 200 investigations, said there was "definite evidence" for his theory after an investigation showed a section of wing recovered a year ago was extended upon landing, a procedure that "can only be activated by a person".

Vance told Australia's 60 Minutes news programme that photographs of the flaperon, which is used to control the roll or bank of an aircraft, show a jagged edge and signs of erosion, indicating that the Boeing 777 was guided into the ocean in a controlled landing.

"The force of the water is really the only thing that could make that jagged edge that we see. It wasn't broken off. If it was broken off, it would be a clean break. You couldn't even break that thing," he said.

French investigators are examining the flaperon, but have yet to release their findings. Another piece of wing, found in Tanzania, is being analysed to see if it was extended at the end of the flight.

60 Minutes also heard from an official co-ordinating the search effort who thought the wreckage could be outside the search zone if someone had been in control of the plane when it crashed.

Peter Foley, from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, said: "If you guided the plane or indeed control-ditched the plane, it has an extended range, potentially."

The Boeing 777 disappeared with 239 people on board while flying to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur in March 2014. Investigation teams are still trying to determine the cause of the crash. Previous theories suggested the plane crashed after malfunctioning or was shot down, with Australian investigators working under the assumption that no one was in control when it disappeared.

Officials last month confirmed that data recovered from the home flight simulator owned by the plane's captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, showed it had been used to plot a course over the southern Indian Ocean, where the missing jet is believed to have crashed.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau is leading the underwater search in the Indian Ocean and publishes regular operational updates.

The pilot of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 left a route plotted on his home flight simulator similar to the path the missing airliner is thought to have taken when it vanished on 8 March 2014.

The claim that the FBI had examined Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah's home simulator and found the route prompted speculation the disappearance was a murder-suicide when it was reported by New York magazine last week.

But the story was flatly denied by the Malaysian authorities, says The Guardian. The national police chief, Khalid Abu Bakar, said Malaysia had not handed documents or information to the FBI or any overseas authority.

However, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has now confirmed the FBI did examine the simulator and did find a route plotted to the southern Indian Ocean, where flight MH370 is thought to have been heading when it was last detected.

It added that the discovery does not prove the disappearance was a murder-suicide. It is not known if the route was plotted by Shah himself, just that it was on a simulator in his home.

The ATSB was responding to claims made by Australian pilot Byron Bailey, who wrote in The Australian this week that the FBI discovery "shows＃ it was a deliberate planned murder-suicide".

Bailey dismissed the theory proposed by the ATSB that the flight crew, including Shah, were unresponsive as the plane headed south, labelling it as "bollocks" that does not make sense to "us pilots".

Last week, the Dutch firm carrying out the underwater search for the plane said they may have been looking in the wrong place as they were basing the hunt on the belief the crew were unconscious. If the pilot was awake, he could have glided the plane further south.

Malaysian police have dismissed a media report that missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 was deliberately steered into the sea by a pilot intent on mass murder and suicide.

New York magazine said its accusation was based on a leaked document from the Malaysian police investigation that showed Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah had "conducted a simulated flight deep into the remote southern Indian Ocean" on his home flight simulator less than a month before the aircraft vanished.

"We found a flight path that led to the southern Indian Ocean, among the numerous other flight paths charted on the flight simulator that could be of interest," the document reportedly said.

 New York journalist Jeff Wise says the revelation is "the strongest evidence yet that Zaharie made off with the plane in a premeditated act of mass murder-suicide".

Malaysian police inspector-general Tan Sri Khalid Abu Bakar told local media the story "is not true", insisting Malaysia had not submitted such a document to "any authority abroad, including the FBI".

However, in a separate article, New York magazine pointed out it had said "the FBI had given the report to Malaysia, not vice versa". It claims Malaysia turned over Zaharie's simulator hard drives to the agency and that it had written a report about its findings for the Malaysian police.

The Australian Transport Safety Board (ATSB), which is leading the search for the Boeing 777, has said there is "no evidence" to support the claim that it was a "deliberate planned murder/suicide". It did, however, confirm that the FBI had provided data to the investigation.

Without going into detail about what was found on the simulator, the ATSB says the information "shows only the possibility of planning" and "does not reveal what happened on the night of its disappearance nor where the aircraft is located".

The ATSB has made no claims about what might have caused the disappearance of the aircraft, saying only that "for search purposes the relevant facts and analysis most closely match a scenario in which there was no pilot intervening in the latter stages of the flight".

Relatives of those on board the missing plane have expressed frustration with what they see as a lack of transparency in the investigation.

Steve Wang, whose 57-year-old mother was a passenger on MH370, told Time magazine he has no idea whether to believe the latest claims since the entire investigation has been shrouded in mystery.

"They should give the next of kin more information," he said. "Until today they have not given us any information from the investigation - they have given us nothing."

Captain Desmond Ross, an aviation expert with experience as a pilot, also told Time he felt there had been a "distinct lack of transparency", although he added that many pilots plot unusual courses on home flight simulators for legitimate reasons.

"I think there is a lot of information being withheld from the investigation. I＊m sure the Malaysians are withholding information," he said.

MH370: Has search team been looking in the wrong place?

The company leading the underwater hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 fears they have been scouring the wrong area for the past two years.

Dutch engineering group Fugro says it now believes the plane might have glided into the Indian Ocean rather than dived in its final moments.

Project director Paul Kennedy told Reuters that if wreckage is not found in the area they have been searching, then this other scenario might be a more "logical" conclusion.

"If it was manned it could glide for a long way. You could glide it for further than our search area is," he said.

The search of the 46,000 square mile patch of the southern Indian Ocean 每 roughly equivalent to the size of Greece 每 is expected to end in three months.

Flight MH370 disappeared in March 2014, with 239 passengers on board, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

"Doubts that the search teams are looking in the right place are likely to fuel calls for all data to be made publicly available so that academics and rival companies can pursue an 'open source' solution - a collaborative public answer to the mystery," says the Daily Telegraph.

This is also the "first time officials have lent some support to contested theories that someone was in control during the flight's final moments," says the newspaper.

MH370: Why hasn't the missing Malaysia Airlines flight been found?

The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has hit yet another delay.

Due to "atrocious" weather, almost no progress has been made in the last eight weeks, according to reports in Australian media. The highly sensitive sonar equipment needed to comb deep crevices in the seabed can only be used in calm conditions and the Australian winter runs from June to August.

"In the event of further poor weather, or delays as a result of unforeseeable problems such as equipment failure or crew incapacity, searching the entire 120,000 square kilometre search area may continue well beyond the winter months," said the Australian Transport Safety Bureau.

The search, which is focused on a remote part of the southern Indian Ocean, has been going for more than two years with no concrete clues as to the whereabouts of the jet. Debris has been found in Africa in recent months, but there is still no sign of the plane itself.

The vast underwater search was originally expected to finish last month, but a range of obstacles, such as poor weather, illness and lost equipment, have slowed progress.

Ministers from Australia, Malaysia and China will meet on 19 July to make a final decision on the "way forward".

The Malaysia Airlines flight went missing with 239 people on board en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014.

Here are some of the other reasons the plane is yet to be found:

It isn't clear where the flight went

On the day of its disappearance, 8 March 2014, flight MH370 was tracked as normal until 1.22am local time.

Its last verbal contact occurred at 1:19:30, when Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah acknowledged, as is protocol, a send-off by Kuala Lumpur air traffic control, Lumpur Radar. The conversation was brief and conventional:

Lumpur Radar: "Malaysian three seven zero, contact Ho Chi Minh one two zero decimal nine. Good night."

Captain Shah: "Good night. Malaysian three seven zero."

The plane continued to appear on Malaysian military radar before suddenly turning westwards from its planned flight path and crossing the Malay Peninsula.

At 2.22am, it disappeared completely from radar while over the Andaman Sea, 200 nautical miles north-west of Penang.

It is still unclear why it deviated from its planned path and where precisely it went next.

Investigators have discovered that satellite communications continued between the aircraft and Inmarsat's satellite communications network until 8:19am, as the plane flew south over the Indian Ocean.

Malaysia's ministry of transport has long maintained that the Boeing 777 crashed in the Indian Ocean, but the exact location of its descent is unclear.

The search area is vast and the ocean is deep

In a video posted on YouTube last November, international investigators blamed deep water and the vast search area for their inability to find the missing plane

"Searching for MH370 is a complicated task," the Joint Agency Coordination Centre said. "The search area is a long way from land, the water is very deep and the seafloor is largely uncharted."

Investigators have explained repeatedly that the task has been complicated by the fact some locations lie as deep as four miles below the surface.

"Daylight can only penetrate in some areas," says the agency. "[On the] deep sea floor, there is no sunlight, which has made progress in the search slow."

Flight recorders, so-called "black boxes", can provide invaluable information about a crash 每 but unfortunately, they also go down with the plane, so need to be found for their data to be analysed.

A beacon, or "pinger", helps search teams close in on their location, but the boxes only have enough battery power to last about a month before they cease transmissions. Even the location of EgyptAir flight MS804 crash site took four full weeks to discover, despite extensive debris being found and search teams having a much clearer sense of where the plane went down.

Malaysian authorities have called for the United Nations' International Civil Aviation Organisation, which helps develop aviation best practices, to implement new communication and tracking systems that broadcast information and follow planes in real time. This has not yet been adopted, largely due to the high cost of such systems, The Verge says.

There are many loose ends

Since it went missing, the only remnants of flight MH370 to be found are fragments of debris washed up on the coastlines of Reunion Island, Mozambique, Mauritius and South Africa.

Aviation experts have put up countless explanations as to why this might be, but in the absence of concrete evidence, conspiracy theorists have begun questioning everything from the site of the search to the plausibility of the wreckage itself and the very notion the plane crashed.

US psychologist Rob Brotherton, the author of Suspicious Minds: Why We Believe Conspiracy Theories, says as many as 90 per cent of people acknowledge entertaining one conspiracy theory or another. "Given a handful of dots, our pattern-seeking brains can't resist trying to connect them," he told the Los Angeles Times.

But, he adds, we shouldn't be quick to reject ideas, no matter how strange. "Dismissing all conspiracy theories (and theorists) as crazy is just as intellectually lazy as credulously accepting every wild allegation," he says.

A US adventurer searching for remains of the vanished Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has discovered 20 items he believes could have belonged to the passengers and crew.

Blaine Gibson found the items on Riake beach, on Nosy Boraha island in north-east Madagascar.

"They may have just fallen off a ship," he told the BBC. "Still, I found them on the same 18km [11 miles] stretch of beach where I found suspected aircraft parts, so it is important that they are investigated properly."

Photos of the pieces, which include purses and an Angry Birds pencil-case, have been released by the non-profit organisation Aircrash Support Group Australia, which supports those affected by aviation disasters, in the hopes that they might be recognised by friends or relatives of those on board.

Gibson, a lawyer from Seattle, has spent the past year combing the beaches of Madagascar for signs of the plane's wreckage. In March, a piece of grey metal stamped 'NO STEP' was confirmed as "almost certainly" belonging to the missing plane. Earlier this month, Gibson discovered two more pieces of debris on Nosy Bohara which will be analysed by experts.

Other items believed to be from the plane, which went missing en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014, have turned up on the shorelines of South Africa, Reunion Island, Mozambique and Mauritius

A man who previously discovered debris likely to belong to Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has found two more potential fragments from the plane on a Madagascan beach.

US lawyer turned self-styled adventurer Blaine Gibson, who has spent the last year scouring the coast for pieces of the aircraft, which disappeared on 8 March 2015, says he made the discovery on a beach on Nosy Boraha island in north-east Madagascar.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which continues to oversee the investigation into the missing flight, said Gibson had contacted them on Friday to report what he believed to be a fragment of window frame and another unidentified item.

In March, Gibson discovered a grey piece of metal bearing the words "NO STEP" on a sandbank between Mozambique and Madagascar. Australian investigators have concluded it belonged to a stabiliser panel and was "almost certainly" from the missing plane. Other items possibly belonging to the wreckage have also been found on the island of Reunion, South Africa and Mauritius.

If confirmed, the new debris would strengthen the leading theory that MH370 crashed somewhere in the Indian Ocean after running for several hours on autopilot. Ocean currents would lead to items being washed up on the south-east African coast.

The Australian investigation is scheduled to end this summer, despite the protests of relatives' groups.

Flight MH370: Four new pieces of possible debris found

Several pieces of debris that could be from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 that vanished more than two years ago have washed up on the beaches of Mozambique and Mauritius.

Two fragments found last week in Mauritius and one in Mozambique were "of interest" to the Australian team leading the search for the Boeing 777, according to the country's transport minister Darren Chester. The debris will be sent to Australia where it will be examined by aviation experts.

"The Malaysian government is yet to take custody of the items, however, as with previous items, officials are arranging collection," he said in a statement.

Malaysian officials are currently deciding whether another fragment, found on the Mozambican Macaneta peninsula last week, warrants further investigation.

Don Thompson, a British engineer and member of the informal international group investigating MH370, told the BBC that the piece "does look like it's part of a Boeing 777" and that it was "in the right area where debris is expected to wash up."

So far, five pieces of debris have been confirmed as being definitely or probably from flight MH370, which vanished between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing more than two years ago.

"This is going to keep happening. It seems inevitable there are many more parts on beaches, yet to be found," says BBC transport correspondent Richard Westcott.

"Or maybe they've already been found, the people just don't realise what they are yet."

The long search for Malaysia Airlines plane MH370 is set to end by early August, according to the man spearheading the hunt in the southern Indian Ocean where the jet is thought to have crashed.

With less than 15,000 sq km remaining to be searched out of the 120,000 sq km target zone off western Australia, the chief of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau Martin Dolan said there was no indication the zone would be extended.

"We have some way to go and our best bet is that we will complete that search late July, early August, depending on unforeseen circumstances," Dolan told The Australian.

Although there is "technical capability" to continue the hunt, the resources to do so are a "matter for government," he added.

"At this point there is a diminishing level of confidence that we will find the aircraft," he said. "There will be a lot of disappointment if we don't find it."

Investigations have so far failed to solve the mystery over what happened aboard MH370, a scheduled flight that disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in one of air travel＊s most baffling every mysteries.

Since debris from the missing flight MH370 began washing up on the shores of various coastlines, conspiracy theorists have questioned whether everything is as it seems.

Parts of the plane, which went missing en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014, have turned up on the shorelines of South Africa, Reunion Island, Mozambique and Mauritius.

But some were suspicious about what they saw as a lack of marine life on the debris, which must have spent a long time in the Indian Ocean.

Jeff Wise, a private pilot and freelance writer, who has written a book on MH370, was among those to suggest the parts were planted.

"There is only one reasonable conclusion to draw from the condition of these pieces. Since natural means could not have delivered them to the locations where they were discovered, they must have been put there deliberately. They were planted," he wrote last month.

But Dr Schalk L邦ckhoff, a retired physician, has since posted a photograph he took of the debris 每 covered in barnacles 每 near Mossel Bay, a small town in Western Cape province, South Africa, back in December, three months before anyone realised that it could be from MH370.

L邦ckhoff told Africaans newspaper Netwerk 24 that he had not realised where the object might have come from and was reluctant to pick it up because the barnacles smelled so bad. When he returned later in the day, the whole object had washed away. 



By the time it was found in March by Neels Kruger, an archaeologist from Pretoria, the barnacles appeared to have washed off.

The piece of flotsam turned out to be an engine cowling with a Rolls-Royce logo, and Malaysian officials have said it is "almost certainly" from MH370.

The new photograph has dampened Wise's suspicions: "These photos make a compelling case for the idea 每 which I have strongly disputed here 每 that barnacle-encrusted pieces could be thoroughly cleaned by wave, sand, and sun after coming ashore.

"The implication, then, is that the pieces were not 'ineptly planted', as I asserted, but that the lack of biofouling is due to the pieces spending time ashore before they were discovered."

Meanwhile, Christine Negroni, who has also written a book on MH370, has dismissed the discovery of debris as "a big ho hum".

Writing for Forbes, she says the real question that has gone unanswered by anyone in Malaysia is: "What else is new in the investigation?"

MH370: New wreckage 'almost certainly' from plane

Two pieces of debris that washed up on beaches in South Africa and Mauritius are "almost certainly" from the Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 that disappeared more than two years ago, Malaysian officials have said.

An engine cowling with a Rolls-Royce logo was discovered near Mossel Bay, a small town in Western Cape province, South Africa, in March by local archaeologist Neels Kruger.

The other piece of wreckage was an interior panel from an aircraft cabin, found in April by hotel guests on Rodrigues Island, around 350 miles east of Mauritius Island.

Both pieces are said to be consistent with those found on Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 aircraft. No other 777 has crashed or gone missing in that part of the world.

Other wreckage has also been found along the coast of Mozambique and on Reunion Island, all of it "almost certainly" from MH370.

Investigators and amateur aviators alike have attempted to piece together Flight MH370's final hours after it went off the radar on 8 March 2014.

Military radar tracked the plane as it deviated from its flight path, before it went out of range an hour later. Investigators assume it went down somewhere over the Indian Ocean, killing all 239 people on board.

More than 85 per cent of the official 120,000sq-km search zone in the ocean has now been trawled. "We remain hopeful the aircraft will be found," Darren Chester, Australia's minister for infrastructure and transport, said.

A host of theories has sprung up to account for the crash and the latest discovery is unlikely to put a stop to the speculation. "All of this suggests the aircraft did crash into the sea," says the BBC's transport correspondent, Richard Westcott. "None of it tells us why."

Two pieces of debris that may have come from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for testing.

The items were found on the Mozambique coastline, one in February and the other in December. The location of the debris is consistent with models of ocean currents showing where the sea might have carried the wreckage, reports BBC News.

One of the pieces, a flat grey fragment with the words "No Step" printed along one side, was found on a sandbank. The other is a 3ft-long piece of metal picked up by a South African holidaymaker.

A spokesman for the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said yesterday: "Both pieces of debris were packaged in Africa and remained that way until arrival. They are being opened today with investigators from a range of countries and organisations."

However, Australia's infrastructure minister Darren Chester moved to dampen expectations of quick test results. "These are items of interest but because of the rigorous analysis to be performed, it is not possible to speculate on how long it might take to reach any conclusions," he said.

The pieces will also be examined by experts from Boeing, Geoscience Australia and the Australian National University in Canberra.

Flight MH370 disappeared carrying 239 passengers and crew on 8 March 2014, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. A piece of the plane's wing, washed up on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion, is so far the only confirmed fragment of the plane to be discovered.

Flight MH370: two years after disappearance 每 what do we know?

Investigators are examining a new piece of debris suspected to be from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370. The wreckage was washed up on the Reunion coast in the Indian Ocean.

An interim report is due to be released tomorrow to mark the second anniversary of the plane's disappearance, which occurred while it was flying between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing, with 239 people on board.

The latest discovery comes days after a piece of wreckage from a Boeing 777 was discovered on the shores of Mozambique. It has been sent to Australia for further analysis, along with the new piece of debris.

So far, the only piece of wreckage to have been found is small piece of a wing, washed up on Reunion Island last July, although there have been several false leads, including debris found in Thailand at the beginning of the year.

"Currently, we are awaiting verification of two more pieces of debris which were discovered recently in Mozambique and Reunion Island respectively," Malaysian transport minister Liow Tiong Lai said.

There is still a high degree of optimism among investigators that the missing aircraft will be found.

Martin Dolan, the head of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is coordinating the search, says it is "very likely" the plane will be found by July.

"We've covered nearly three-quarters of the search area and since we haven't found the aircraft in those areas, that increases the likelihood that it's in the areas we haven't looked at yet," he told The Guardian.

Two years on, what exactly do we know about one of the biggest mysteries in aviation history?

The plane took off from Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 00.41am local time on 8 March 2014, carrying 227 passengers, ten cabin crew, two pilots and a little more than 14 tons of cargo. It was travelling to Beijing Capital International Airport, a flight that should have taken around 5hrs 34mins.

The Boeing 777 was last heard from via its automatic transmission system at 1.07am, with its captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, speaking to Malaysian air traffic control 12 minutes later as his flight was handed over to Vietnamese control. Shah said: "Good night. Malaysian three seven zero."

At 1.21am, halfway over the Gulf of Thailand, the plane disappeared from civilian radar, suggesting its transponder stopped functioning or had been turned off. It could still be seen by military radar, however, which is how it is known to have abruptly turned from its flight path and headed back in the direction it came, before turning further west.

What was the last sighting?

Nobody truly knows because the countries involved are reluctant to reveal their military surveillance capabilities, but the plane seems to have been last spotted by Malaysian military radar at 1.40am, near Penang.

Were attempts made to contact the plane?

Yes. A little after 1.30am, the captain of another aircraft tried to make radio contact at the request of Vietnamese air traffic control, which could not reach MH370. He got through to the cockpit but could only hear "mumbling" and static. Two ground-to-aircraft phone calls were made at 2.39am and 7.13am. Both went unanswered.

When was MH370 last known to be in the air?

The last piece of data from the flight was sent by the automated Inmarsat satellite communications system at 8.19am, suggesting the flight was still in the air at that time. However, it could not give conclusive evidence about where the plane was and only suggested it was in one of two "flight corridors", one stretching north and the other south.

How is the search going?

The Australian authorities are still looking in the southern Indian Ocean but are expected to stop at the end of June, by which time the search, using ships dragging radar systems, will have cost some 90m, says the Daily Express. The only piece of confirmed MH370 wreckage found so far is a flaperon, a small part of a wing, which washed up on the French island of Reunion, thousands of miles from the presumed crash site.

What about the relatives?

There has been anger about the treatment of relatives by both the Chinese and Malaysian authorities, who are said to have been tardy with information and lacking in sensitivity. It angered relatives of the crew members when Malaysia abruptly declared the flight lost without warning. Some still cling to the hope their loved ones are alive, even after so long.

As the Indian Ocean search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 enters its final weeks, investigators are said to be looking at alternative causes for its disappearance.

The Australian team leading the search has been working on the theory that the pilots died or became incapacitated and the plane flew on autopilot until it ran out of fuel and crashed.

After a long, fruitless search of a 46,000 square-mile area, they are now "preparing to revive the theory that the plane was deliberately brought down by a rogue pilot", says The Times.

With ten weeks of the search left to go, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) says it is not quite ready to believe its initial hypothesis is wrong.

"We're not at the point yet but sooner or later we will be 每 and we will have to explain to governments what the alternative is," said Martin Dolan, the chief commissioner of the ATSB. "And the alternative is, frankly, that despite all the evidence as we currently have, the possibility that someone was at the controls of that aircraft on the flight and gliding it becomes a more significant possibility, if we eliminate all of the current search area.

"In a few months' time, if we haven't found it, then we'll have to be contemplating that one of the much less likely scenarios ends up being more prominent 每 which is that there were control inputs into that aircraft at the end of its flight."

The move would "send shockwaves through the aviation industry", says the Times, as the current theory is supported by the plane's manufacturer Boeing and Britain's Inmarsat satellite communication company.

If a pilot controlled the plane to its end, the potential search area would also be vastly greater, three times the size of the present zone. Officials apparently are not ruling out the idea that a third individual entered the cockpit and took control.

The search for the flight, which disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014, is likely to cost 90m in total by the time it finishes in April.

The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has hit a snag: an underwater sonar probe has been lost on the floor of the Indian Ocean.

The deep-water "towfish" was being towed by the Furgo Discovery on Sunday when it collided with an underwater mud volcano rising 1.3 miles from the sea floor.

Together with the 2.7 miles of cable that attached it to the ship, the unit, which was fitted with survey instruments, is now on the bottom of the ocean, although it is hoped it will be possible to recover it, says the Daily Telegraph.

The Furgo Discovery is currently making its way back to the west Australian port of Fremantle so a replacement cable can be fitted. It is expected to reach port on Saturday.

MH370 vanished with 239 people on board on 8 March 2014, while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. Last July, a six-feet piece of the plane's wing was washed up on Reunion island in the Indian Ocean.

A second barnacle-encrusted piece of metal was found on the Thai coast this weekend, but ocean modelling suggests it is unlikely to be part of the missing Boeing-777, says The Guardian.

Meanwhile, earlier this month, the Australian team searching for M370 identified the previously unknown wreck of a 19th century ship, the second antique shipwreck uncovered during the search so far.

MH370: relatives say missing loved ones are still alive

Relatives of the 154 Chinese and Taiwanese passengers on board the missing Malaysia Airlines MH370 flight say their families are being held against their will at an undisclosed location.

They added that they were willing to absolve the captors if they released their relatives.

"We believe our loved ones may still be alive and are being held at an undisclosed location for unknown reasons," said the group in a statement issued in Kuala Lumpur.

"In the absence of proof to the contrary, we believe it is possible the missing may still be alive.

"If this is so, we would willingly grant to the perpetrators amnesty in return for the release of the missing."

The plane disappeared on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March 2014, carrying 239 people. Families of the 154 Chinese and Taiwanese passengers have rejected official statements about the aircraft's fate. They also dismissed the discovery of a jet-wing part that washed up on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion last July.

French officials confirmed that the part belonged to MH370, suggesting that the plane had broken up as it crashed into the southern Indian Ocean.

However, the families said: "We do not believe any of the series of official statements starting from 24 March 2014 up to and including that of 3 September 2015. There is no real proof justifying any of these statements."

Their comments came as Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Centre said its search for the plane in a 120,000 square kilometre area in the Indian Ocean was likely to finish in mid-2016.

"Three vessels 每 Fugro Discovery, Fugro Equator and Havila Harmony 每 are currently deployed for the underwater search. As at January 2016, more than 80,000 square kilometres had been searched," it said.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 is likely to have suffered an engine "flame-out" rather than a controlled ditching, according to new analysis conducted by the Australian Defence Science and Technology Group (DST).

The plane disappeared in March 2014 en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

A report from DST, released today, said the most likely scenario was that the plane's right engine flamed out, followed by the left engine, causing it to crash into the Indian Ocean.

"Given the amount of fuel uplifted in Kuala Lumpur and historic fuel burn data for each engine, it is estimated that the left engine could have continued to run for up to 15 minutes after the right engine flamed out," said the report.

It added that it would be reasonable to assume the engine flame-out triggered a back-up power unit, which would have restored power to the satellite data unit and sent the last transmissions from the flight, reports the Sydney Morning Herald.

The analysis contradicts the theory put forward by some industry observers, including Captain Simon Hardy, who believe the pilot made a controlled ditch after flying for several hours.

They believe this would provide a logical reason why no wreckage was found on the ocean's surface: the only physical evidence of the crash so far has been a flaperon that washed up on a beach at Reunion Island near Madagascar.

Australian officials have said they are confident that they are searching in the right area. The new data analysis showed that the plane is "probably in the southern end of the Indian Ocean search zone, where the operation will now be focused", reports the BBC.

The search team has been combing a 120,000 sq km area of seabed about 2,000km off the coast of Perth.

MH370: British pilot claims plane could be found in 'weeks'

A British pilot believes the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 could be found "in a matter of weeks" after the deep sea hunt for the plane shifted to a remote part of the Indian Ocean.

Following extensive analysis, Simon Hardy claims the area, which will be searched next month by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), is the missing plane's most likely resting place.

The experienced Boeing 777 pilot told The Australian newspaper: "I am fairly confident that the wreckage will be found within the next four to eight weeks."

However, Australian authorities stressed they were not being guided by Hardy's analysis. Martin Dolan, ATSB's chief commissioner, said the location had been chosen because the southern hemisphere weather had made the extreme conditions in the southern ocean calmer.

Hardy spent six months analysing known MH370 data and concluded that the plane was intentionally landed on the Indian Ocean and sank intact just 20 nautical miles (37km) outside an area that was being searched in April this year. The ATSB described his theory as "credible" at the time.

He suggested that MH370's captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, who comes from Penang, performed a U-turn after turning off the flight's transponder.

After flying along the border between Malaysia and Thailand, the aircraft reached Penang and made three turns in quick succession.

"It took me months to work out what this was," Hardy told The Sunday Times. "The clue was Ayers Rock [in Australia]. I have done the same manoeuvre there, to look down and get a great view. Somebody was taking a last emotional look at Penang."

China, which lost 153 citizens in the air disaster on 8 March 2014, has also pledged an additional 9.5m to help with the search.

In July, a wing part known as the flaperon washed up on Reunion Island. Experts said that the debris almost certainly came from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight, but nothing further was found and that stage of the search was subsequently called off.

MH370: sonar experts 'jumped out of chairs' on seeing new images

Sonar analysis experts are urging the MH370 search team to revisit an area of the Indian Ocean after seeing pictures of objects they believe closely resemble an aircraft debris field.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the hunt for the missing plane, recently published new images from the search area after resurveying a number of possible debris sites, but ruled out any link to the missing aircraft.

However, sonar analysis experts from the Seattle-based geophysical consulting firm Williamson & Associates said they "jumped out of their chairs" when they saw the new images online, reports the Herald Sun.

The ATSB concluded that the objects were likely to be "edges of rock exposed above the seabed and associated scattered rock", but Rob McCallum, manager of special projects at Williamson & Associates, said the pictures did not "appear to be geology as such".

He added: "They're certainly worth another look, and by that I mean putting down a camera. It's not a difficult thing to do, and it's better to be certain for the sake of all of the families."

Analysts pointed out that the edges of the pictures are blurry, suggesting the sonar equipment was being "pushed to the limits" and they might be "missing something".

Williamson & Associates lost out on a tender position with ATSB for the MH370 search, despite specialising in sonar equipment that helped find an Australian warship in 2008, sixty years after it sank to the bottom of the Indian Ocean.

An ATSB spokesman said its own specialists were satisfied that the images did not show aircraft debris.

"We consider it unprofessional to draw conclusions based on the limited information provided by the images in the search update report," he said. "There are no indications that there is anything possessing the characteristics of an aircraft debris field and therefore a visual imaging run at very low altitude＃ was unnecessary."

MH370: woman claims to have found wreckage and skeletons

A woman in the Philippines claims to have found the wreckage of a plane "containing many skeletons and painted with the Malaysian flag", prompting speculation it could be part of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Siti Kayam claims to have stumbled across a smashed fuselage while she and others were out hunting for birds on the island of Sugbai.

According to the Daily Mail, police in neighbouring Borneo have confirmed they received a report of the discovery in thick jungle on the remote island.

Authorities are reluctant to say more at this time and "remain reserved about the report", says the Mail.

Sugbai lies more than 4,500 miles east of Reunion Island, where French officials believe part of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane was found earlier this year.

Experts say it is "highly unlikely" that debris could have drifted from the remote Philippines island to the other side of the Indian ocean, especially as Borneo, mainland Malaysia and parts of Indonesia lie in the way.

It is understood the report will be verified or dismissed after further investigation within the next day or so.

MH370 disappeared in March last year with 239 people on board. A senior French prosecutor confirmed last month that a series of numbers found inside the barnacle-crusted jet wing part, found on Reunion, matches records held by a Spanish manufacturer as being part of the Boeing 777.

French experts say it is a "certainty" that the jet wing part that washed up on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion is from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

In a statement in Paris yesterday, senior French prosecutor Francois Molins said that a series of numbers found inside the barnacle-crusted 'flaperon' matches records held by a Spanish manufacturer as being part of the Boeing 777, last seen on 8 March last year.

According to CNN the statement added: "Consequently, it is possible today to affirm with certainty that the flaperon discovered at the Reunion Island on July 29 2015 is that of MH370."

Malaysia's prime minister, Najib Razak, said in August that he believed the flaperon must be from the missing aircraft, says the BBC. But this is the first official confirmation from France, where the part was taken for analysis.

The 6ft-long chunk of metal was found on the French territory of Reunion some 2,300 miles from the area where searchers believe the jet must have crashed into the ocean 每 but the find is consistent with projections about where debris might end up after drifting on ocean currents.

MH370 took off from Kuala Lumpur in the early hours of 8 March 2014, heading for Beijing with 239 passengers and crew on board.

The hunt for the wreckage continues in the southern Indian Ocean, 1,100 miles off the coast of Australia, with some 30 per cent of the top-priority search area covered so far using sonar technology.

The area searched is more than 11,185 square miles of the ocean floor, says the BBC, at depths of nearly 20,000 feet.

The focus of attention in the hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines jet MH370 has shifted to the Maldives.

Malaysia announced today it is sending a team to examine debris washed up on the Indian Ocean archipelago.

Transport minister Liow Tiong Lai said they would try to establish if the pieces were from an aircraft, says CNN.

He added: "At this stage, it is highly premature to speculate on whether this debris is in any way connected to MH370."

A piece of debris washed up on the French territory Reunion last month was claimed by Malaysia as a 'flaperon' from the aircraft, which went missing in March 2014. But French authorities say more tests are necessary to be sure.

Australian authorities have warned that while Reunion is a plausible end-point for debris, washed by currents from the place they believe the plane came down, the Maldives are far outside that zone.

The Daily Mail reported yesterday that at least some of the Maldives debris might come from a capsized barge. The captain, Abdullah Rasheed, told a local news site he believed some pieces were from his cargo.

His barge capsized on 10 February this year, with three out of five crew members lost. He said he could "almost certainly" say that some of the debris was from his cargo of three or four containers of wall panels.

The Mail says there are other pieces which the captain did not identify 每 including something which looks like it might plausibly be part of an aircraft wing, with the typical honeycomb internal structure.

The South China Morning Post, however, speculates the piece appears "very similar to ＃ an unusual make of surfboard". Varial Surf Technology makes boards with an aluminium core but has not commented on the debris.

A minister in the office of the Maldives president, Mohamed Shareef, said officials were working closely with the Malaysian aviation authorities.

He said: "We are collecting any unidentified debris and storing them in a warehouse so the Malaysians can carry out tests and determine if it is from their plane or not. We ourselves are not doing any testing, but we have sent photographs."

The Mail recalls Maldives residents claimed to have seen a Boeing 777 flying south past the islands before circling back over the lower Bay of Bengal on the night MH370 disappeared.

Flight MH370: as France expands search, what happens next?

France is today preparing to conduct land, air and sea searches for more wreckage from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

The move follows confirmation by the Malaysian government on Wednesday that wing debris washed up on the Indian Ocean island of R谷union was part of the missing plane.

Prime Minister Najib Razak said investigators analysing the debris in France had "conclusively confirmed" that the plane crashed into the southern Indian Ocean after veering off course between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing with 239 passengers and crew on board.

"I would like to assure all those affected by this tragedy that the government of Malaysia is committed to do everything within our means to find out the truth of what happened," he said.

Despite Razak's announcement, investigators have stopped short of publicly confirming the debris is from the plane, instead saying there were "very strong conjectures", The Guardian reports.

This has angered relatives of the victims who are demanding more certainty from authorities. The announcements were met with anger in China, where most of the victims were from, as relatives refused to accept the news.

"Please don't let them keep lying," shouted one man while protesting at the airline's Beijing headquarters. "I want them to reveal the truth immediately."

Another woman said she had not given up hope of finding her daughter. "I believe they are still alive 每 otherwise they would have found the bodies."

But Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott, whose country is leading the deep-sea hunt for the wreckage, said the discovery was consistent with the search pattern teams have been using.

"It suggests that for the first time we may be a little bit closer to solving this baffling mystery," he told reporters.

Why is it taking so long for investigators to confirm if the wing is from MH370?

The investigation is being led by aviation authorities in France as the debris was discovered on French territory, but Malaysian and Australian officials are also involved. The wing arrived at a military-run facility near Toulouse last weekend, but the involvement of different countries and groups has "complicated and delayed the situation somewhat", says CNN.

How will they confirm its origin?

Jean-Paul Troadec, the former head of France's BEA agency, which investigates aviation accidents, said the type of paint used on the wing might provide vital clues. "Every airline paints their planes in a certain way ＃ and if the paint used is used by Malaysia Airlines and other companies, there may be more certainty," he said.

Investigators will undertake tests to try to determine where the wing came from. Mary Schiavo, an aviation analyst and former inspector general of the US Department of Transportation, says they will be conducting "everything from X-rays to sonograms". They will then take apart the fragment in search of serial and part numbers to match to the missing plane.

If a serial number cannot be easily identified, the wing will be examined with an electron microscope "that can magnify up to 10,000 times", Pierre Bascary, former director of tests at France's General Directorate for Armaments, told the Daily Telegraph.

Bill Waldock, a professor of safety science at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, predicted analysts would also look for small fractures in the surface that could reveal the plane's angle of impact. An ultrasound could show "just how violent the separation was", he told ABC News.

There have also been suggestions that the barnacles growing on the wing could provide a clue about the water conditions under which they were formed and narrow down the search area considerably.

What happens next?

French authorities have announced they intend to set up a new search, combing the small Indian Ocean island for further traces of the missing plane.

The search will begin with an aerial observation by a military plane this morning, The Guardian reports, to be joined later by helicopters, boats and foot patrols across the French-administered island.

Although French investigators have declined to state definitively the flaperon discovered last week is from the Boeing 777 which went missing in March last year, the latest announcement suggests there is sufficiently strong conviction to launch a new search.

Malaysian authorities have been less circumspect, confirming the wing part belonged to the missing aircraft and claiming more debris had been discovered 每 a claim the French were quick to dismiss.

The discrepancy between these accounts has caused frustration among relatives of the flight's passengers, the BBC reports, exacerbating conspiracy theories and claims there has been a cover-up.

Even if confirmed by investigators, it is unlikely to solve the mystery behind the plane's disappearance and why it veered so dramatically off course. More than a year on from the tragedy, families of the victims are demanding more definitive answers.

But experts are divided on the significance of the discovery, which Malaysia called a "major breakthrough" in the investigation.

"This confirms the plane went down somewhere in the Indian Ocean 每 but we pretty much knew that," aviation consultant Gideon Ewers told Sky News. "It won't take us any further down the path of what happened and why."

However, Jakarta-based aviation consultant Gerry Soejatman said discovering roughly where the plane crashed was a "huge step" forward in the investigation. "This answers a lot of questions, actually," he said. "It eliminates other theories, conspiracy theories."

Meanwhile, the Australian-led search for the wreckage and the crucial black boxes continues. Authorities scouring 120,000 sq km of the Indian Ocean say they are still confident they're looking in the right place and will do so for as long as it takes to provide families with the answers they need.

Flight MH370: analysis of wing begins as experts meet in France

Malaysian and French aviation officials are meeting local magistrates and police in Paris to coordinate the investigation into the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, as analysis of the wing component found on Reunion island gets underway.

On Sunday, Malaysian transport minister Liow Tiong Lai confirmed that the flaperon was from a Boeing 777, making it increasingly likely that it is from the missing plane which vanished last year after veering off course between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing with 239 people on board.

French investigators are expected to determine whether or not the fragment is from the plane by Wednesday, but Jean-Paul Troadec, former director of the Bureau of Investigation and Analysis (BEA) downplayed expectations. "We should not expect miracles from this analysis," he said.

Other experts believe that barnacles found on the debris could provide vital clues to help unravel the mystery behind the missing flight. The crustaceans could offer "valuable information" about the water conditions under which they were formed and could narrow the search area down to within tens of kilometres, Ryan Pearson, a PhD student at Australia's Griffith University told Reuters.

Meanwhile, Malaysian authorities have appealed to Indian Ocean nations near R谷union island to be on the lookout for more debris. Over the weekend, a number of items were handed in to police on the island, including a piece of metal inscribed with Chinese characters.

One item believed at first to be part of a plane door was found to be from a domestic ladder.

A spokesman in the town of St Andre, where the wing part was found, told the BBC that people are now "going to think any metallic object they find on the beach is from flight MH370". Another source close to the investigation said: "There is a sort of 'treasure hunt' mentality that is taking hold and people are calling us for everything."

Meanwhile, families of the victims continue their anxious wait for answers. "It has been hurting for so long," Nur Laila Ngah, the wife of steward Wan Swaid Wan Ismail, told The Guardian. "We need the closure and all the evidence possible so that we can go ahead with our lives."

MH370: debris 'very likely' to be part of plane - but does it solve mystery?

The official leading the search for Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has said debris washed up on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion is "very likely" to be part of the missing plane.

Martin Dolan, who heads the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, told the BBC he was "increasingly confident" the piece of metal, about two metres square in size, was a "flaperon" from a Boeing 777.

The only recorded case of a missing 777 flaperon, a wing component, is MH370, which disappeared in March last year on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

However, experts have voiced caution over suggestions the discovery would solve the mystery of what happened to the plane.

The fact the debris was found 2,300 miles away from the search area, off the western coast of Australia, does not necessarily mean the search team is hunting in the wrong place, say oceanographers. But neither does it help to narrow the exploration.

"While the discovery might offer clues to the condition of the plane when it vanished with 239 people on board, it's likely to be of scant value in pinpointing a new search zone for the Boeing 777," says the Sydney Morning Herald.

The newspaper cites research into the 2011 tsunami in Japan, which found it is almost impossible to determine where an object has entered the water using the location of its eventual recovery.

One Australian official pointed out the debris, which is being taken to a laboratory in France for testing, would have been in the water for well over a year if it is from MH370.

Therefore, it could have moved "so far that it's not going to be that helpful in pinpointing precisely where the aircraft is", they said.

Meanwhile, a US intelligence assessment, based on satellite data and other evidence, has speculated the plane was deliberately steered off course and potentially deliberately downed, a source told ABC News today.

MH370: 'major lead' as debris washes up on Reunion Island

Debris that washed up on Reunion Island in the western Indian Ocean yesterday is being treated as a "major lead" in the search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

The piece of metal, which is about two metres by two metres, is being examined to determine whether it is connected to the plane, which disappeared in March last year with 239 people on board.

Malaysia's government has said it is "almost certain" that the debris belongs to a Boeing 777 每 and flight MH370 is the only Boeing 777 missing in the world.

The plane was flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014 when it veered dramatically off course and disappeared.

"Clearly we are treating this as a major lead," said Warren Truss, the Australian deputy prime minister. A number seen on the part, which is possibly a maintenance number, could be key in identifying where it came from.

Aviation experts have suggested the fragment could be a "flaperon", a wing component, although most have made their assessments from photographs and nothing is yet confirmed.

Malaysia's transport ministry said that until there is "tangible and irrefutable evidence" it would be premature to speculate at this time.

The chunk of metal was found by people cleaning up a beach in Saint-Andr谷 on Wednesday on the east coast of Reunion Island.

The French territory is far west of the area currently being searched by a team of investigators, but experts have said that this is entirely consistent given the passage of time and the currents of the ocean.

Martin Dolan, chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, who is heading the seabed search, said: "It doesn't rule out our current search area if this were associated with MH370. It is entirely possible that something could have drifted from our current search area to that island."

Aviation safety expert John Goglia told The Guardian that even if the debris is confirmed as a piece of MH370 it would not necessarily lead to the rest of the plane.

"It's going to be hard to say with any certainty where the source of this was," he said. "It just confirms that the airplane is in the water and hasn't been hijacked to some remote place and is waiting to be used for some other purpose."

Families of the victims have expressed mixed feelings about the potential discovery, having been given false hope in the past. "If this is true, at least I know I can have peace and give my husband a proper send-off," said Jacquita Gonzales, the wife of MH370's cabin crew supervisor Patrick Gomes. "But part of us still hopes they are out there alive somewhere."

MH370: Malaysia Airlines to 'stop the bleeding' in finances

Malaysia Airlines is planning a major restructure and rebrand following the losses of flights MH370 and MH17.

The company's new boss Christoph Mueller described the airline as "technically bankrupt" and said that 6,000 jobs 每 almost a third of the workforce 每 will be cut ahead of a rebrand in September.

All 20,000 members of staff have been sent termination notices, but at least 14,000 will be offered their jobs back at the "newly minted Malaysia Airlines Berhad", says the Financial Times.

According to a company statement, the cuts are part of a plan to "stop the bleeding" in finances in 2015, to stabilise in 2016 and to start growing again by 2017.

It comes 14 months after flight MH370 and its 239 passengers and crew disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014. Four months later Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 crashed in rebel-held territory of eastern Ukraine on 17 July, killing all 298 people on board. Western governments have accused pro-Russian rebels of shooting down the Boeing 777.

Reeling from the twin aviation disasters, Malaysia Airlines was taken back under full government ownership last year and even made the unprecedented offer of full refunds to any passengers who were booked to travel in 2014.

Mueller, who spent five years reviving Aer Lingus, was brought in as chief executive last month and has insisted that operations will continue as normal during the restructure.

Passengers can continue to make reservations "in full confidence" that flights and schedules are operating as normal, that tickets sold will be honoured, he said.

Mueller added that the decline in financial performance started long before the "tragic events" of 2014, with the company failing to turn a profit for several years.

In a message to staff last month, he reportedly warned that a major overhaul was needed because of the airline's "uncompetitive cost levels", which were said to be 20 per cent higher than its competitors.

Underwater search experts have raised concerns about the efforts to find Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, the most expensive recovery mission in aviation history.

About $60m is believed to have been spent on the operation so far, but 14 months after it disappeared there is still no trace of the plane nor its 239 passengers and crew.

Malaysia and Australia, which is leading the search for MH370, have split the cost, with both countries committed to a further $50m towards to the search and recovery should it be found.

Paul-Henry Nargeolet, a former French naval officer who helped co-ordinate the search for and recovery of Air France Flight AF447 in 2009, has claimed that Fugro, the Dutch company at the forefront of the mission, lacks experience.

"Fugro is a big company but they don't have any experience in this kind of search and it's really a very specialised job," he said. "This is a big job. I'm not an Australian taxpayer, but if I was, I would be very mad to see money being spent like that."

Fugro currently has two vessels searching the southern Indian Ocean for the plane. Meanwhile, a third search vessel, Go Phoenix, which is said to be using the world's best deep-sea search equipment, is due to pull out of the search within weeks.

Other experts, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told Reuters that Fugro's sonar equipment is better suited to flat surfaces than the rugged underwater terrain that lies beneath the Indian Ocean.

Senior representatives of Williamson & Associates, a US firm rejected for the MH370 contract, also raised concerns that the current search operation may not be able to demonstrate convincingly that 100 per cent of the sea floor is being examined.

Rob McCallum, a vice-president at the firm, said: "It makes no sense to be using fine scale tools to cover a massive area; it is like mowing an entire wheat field with a household lawnmower."

Fugro has rejected claims that it is using inappropriate equipment, pointing to its success in a test range off the West Australian coast and its recent discovery of an uncharted shipwreck earlier this year.

A Malaysian man who stole more than 1,300 from the account of a missing MH370 passenger has been sentenced to four years in prison and three lashes of the cane.

Basheer Ahmad Maula Sahul Hameed, a 34-year-old mechanic, was convicted in April for withdrawing the cash from the account of Chinese victim Tian Jun Wei months after the plane disappeared.

Hameed's wife Nur Shila Kanan, a bank officer for HSBC, was also convicted for making illegal transfers and withdrawals of more than 15,000, using forged documents, cheating the bank supervisor and stealing money. A warrant was issued for her arrest after she failed to turn up to hear her sentence due to apparent sickness, reports The Star.

During the trial, the court heard that money had been transferred from three other Chinese and Malaysian victims into Tian's account before it was partly removed through ATM withdrawals at different locations across Kuala Lumpur. The judge said the couple's actions had "brought further pain to the families, who were already grieving over the loss of their loved ones".

Hameed and Kanan are not the first to exploit a tragedy to line their pockets:

Hurricane Katrina was one of the most devastating hurricanes in the history of the United States, killing around 1,000 people in Louisiana and 200 in Mississippi when it struck in 2005. Among the people to file claims with the Federal Emergency Management Agency was a woman who asked for help to repair damage to her home in New Orleans, as well as medical and dental expenses. She also claimed her scooter had been stolen while she was taking shelter in the Superdrome, reported The Seattle Times. However, when it emerged that she was living in Washington State and had never been to Louisiana she was sentenced to 18 months in prison for fraud.

After the 7 July 2005 suicide bombings in London, the Metropolitan Police sent two teams of officers up to Leeds as part of its investigation and paid for their accommodation. Four years later one of the officers, Det Con Daren Pooley, found himself in court on suspicion of making a "quick profit" out of the force, reported the BBC. Through a third party, he managed to charge the Met Police a monthly rent of 1,950 when the actual rent for the flats was 650. He was jailed for three years for fraud.

Following the Haiti earthquake that killed more than 160,000 people and displaced close to 1.5 million people in 2010, one con artist attempted to pass himself off as a United Nations rep to run a Haitian earthquake relief scam. Marc Payen, from Manhattan, used fake UN stationery to pocket funds intended to go towards medical and humanitarian efforts. He was convicted of two counts of grand larceny, forgery and criminal possession of a forged instrument and sentenced to serve between five and ten years in prison and to pay $17,179.05 in restitution, reported the New York Post.

Just one week after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, a woman in New York began collecting donations online by posing as the aunt of one six-year-old victim. "We've set up a funeral fund for my brother," claimed Nouel Alba. "Anyone willing to make a donation can make one." After being exposed on US television she was arrested by the FBI and sent to prison for eight months for wire fraud and making false statements to the government, reported Today. The victim's real uncle described it as "disgusting behaviour".

After Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 crashed in eastern Ukraine, online scammers immediately got to work on setting up fake Facebook pages using the names of victims. Each linked to a blog site full of pop-up adverts for online gambling and get-rich quick schemes, which served as distribution points for malware designed to hijack computers and steal personal information. At least three of the fake pages were set up in the names of young Australian children who were killed, reported the Canberra Times. Experts told the newspaper that such click-fraud schemes are now common in the wake of major events or disasters. While Facebook was quick to take them down, stopping the scams altogether would prove a much more challenging task.

Flight MH370: what will happen if the missing plane is found?

With poor weather conditions hampering the search for Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, speculation has turned to what might happen if the plane is ever discovered.

More than 75 per cent of the original search zone in the southern Indian Ocean has been explored with no sign of the aircraft or any of the 239 people believed to have perished on board.

Investigators have now doubled the search zone to 120,000 sq km, but they have had to suspend the regular use of their autonomous underwater vehicles (AUV) for the winter months.

This week, the Australian government announced that it had set aside an additional A$50m (25m) to help cover the costs of the ongoing search for the missing plane. "The cost of this measure will be offset by financial contributions to the search from other countries," said the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is coordinating the search. "The actual cost will depend on a number of factors, including the length of the search."

The discovery of a previously uncharted shipwreck has boosted confidence among officials that they will find the plane if it is resting in the search area.

The team spotted "multiple small bright reflections in a relatively small area of otherwise featureless seabed" at a depth of 3,900m. Further investigation using a high-resolution sonar scan found numerous items the size of cricket balls interspersed with a few larger items, the biggest of which was box shaped and around six metres in length. Analysis revealed this week that the debris was likely to be the wreck of a ship.

ATSB's Peter Foley, director of the operational search for MH370, described it as a "fascinating find" but said it was "not what we're looking for". However, he said the discovery "demonstrated that the systems, people and the equipment involved in the search are working well".

He added: "It's shown that if there's a debris field in the search area, we'll find it."

So what would happen next if they do?

One aviation expert has warned that the plane might have to be left on the ocean floor if it is found. Neil Hansford, who has more than 30 years of experience in the airline industry, told the Daily Express that the plane could be inaccessible if it is found in a deep abyss.

Last month, senior ministers from Malaysia, Australia and China met to discuss the next steps in the search and to agree the recovery arrangements if it is found.

Ministers said it was "critical" to have arrangements in place to enable a timely and effective response and said that they remained "committed to bring closure and some peace to the families and loved ones of those on board".

In the event that the aircraft is "found and accessible", evidence would be secured for investigation in accordance with Annex 13 to the Chicago Convention, they said.

This document provides the international requirements for aircraft accident investigations, they include studying the flight recorders and carrying out autopsies with the objective of preventing other disasters in the future.

Aviation law experts have said that Malaysia would likely retain authority of the investigation as it is the "State of Registry" of the aircraft, although the Malaysian government could delegate the inquiry to Australia, as it has done with the search.

"States whose citizens have suffered fatalities in an accident are also entitled to appoint an expert to participate in the investigation," according to the document.

The bulk of Air France flight 447, which crashed in stormy weather en route to Paris from Brazil in 2009, was not found until two years later. While parts of the wreckage and two bodies were found within days, the flight recorders did not turn up until 2011 and the search eventually ended with 74 bodies still missing.

The extensive search of the Atlantic was jointly financed by Air France and Airbus. After four unsuccessful search missions, the wreckage was eventually found just 6.5 nautical miles from the aeroplane's last known location. Deep sea divers only retrieved parts of the aircraft that "were useful to the investigation," leaving the rest of the wreckage on the seabed, according to the final report. The data and cockpit recorders were also recovered, providing crucial evidence about the aircraft's final moments, though some aviation experts still dispute what happened to the plane.

Australian officials co-ordinating the search for MH370 have cast doubt on a theory that the missing plane is in the Bay of Bengal.

Andre Milne, who reportedly works in military aviation technology, has been trying to crowdsource 1.3m to pay for his own investigation, claiming that the Boeing 777 has come to rest in the waters between Malaysia and India.

In a video appeal for funding, he says a wreckage currently lying in the Bay of Bengal needs to be investigated to rule out whether or not it is flight MH370.

He points to witnesses in the Maldives who claimed to have seen a Boeing 777 flying south past the islands before circling back over the lower Bay of Bengal on the night MH370 disappeared in March 2014. He has written to Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott to put forward his hypothesis.

But the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has said that any theories suggesting the aircraft was located to the north or significantly west of Sumatra "were not supported by known facts or careful analysis".

The bureau stopped short of cautioning against public donations to Milne, but told News Corp Australia that "the aircraft cannot be in Kazakhstan, Diego Garcia, the Maldives or indeed the Bay of Bengal".

ATSB Commissioner Martin Dolan said last week that the satellite handshakes leading searchers to the southern Indian Ocean were the most "solid piece of information" they had.

No trace of the plane has been found since it disappeared on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

But Dolan said this does not mean it landed anywhere other than the Indian Ocean.

"The likelihood of there being a lot of floating wreckage isn't high, and some of the possible floating wreckage would have become waterlogged by now, and the rest of it is likely to be mixed up with a whole lot of other stuff in one of those big gyres in the middle of the Indian Ocean," he said.

MH370 shot down by US, says former airline CEO Details of who was on MH370 are being withheld, says airline chiefMH370: Indian Ocean crash theory in doubtFlight MH370: official report claims plane 'spiralled' into seaGhost flight theory 'most likely' explanationPilot had rehearsed landing on island runwayMystery cargo continues to raise questionsRelatives to offer $3m reward for informationBook claims missing plane was shot downFlight MH370: flight path suggests plane went 'rogue'Former PM accuses Malaysia of cover-up Plane 'has crashed with no survivors' Pilot of missing plane deleted simulator data'Deliberate action' diverted Malaysian airlinerPhantom phone calls cause upset for families

Flight MH370: search area to double if plane not found

The search area for missing flight MH370 will be doubled to 46,000 square miles 每 six times the size of Wales 每 if it is not found in the core target area currently being trawled.

Speaking in Kuala Lumpur today, ministers from Australia, China and Malaysia said the extended search could take up to a year in light of "adverse" weather conditions expected in the upcoming winter months.

The whereabouts of the Malaysia Airlines flight, which disappeared on 8 March 2014 with 239 people on board, has become one of the biggest mysteries in aviation history.

Investigators are currently hunting for the wreckage on a rugged 23,000 square mile patch of sea floor, 1,000 miles west of Perth, Australia. The search, which has so far found no trace of the plane, is expected to finish next month.

In a joint statement, Australia's deputy prime minister Warren Truss, Malaysian minister of transport Liow Tiong Lai and Chinese minister of transport Yang Chuangtang said 60 per cent of the current search area had been explored.

"Should the aircraft not be found within the current search area, ministers agreed to extend the search by an additional 60,000 sq km to bring the search area to 120,000 sq km and thereby cover the entire highest probability area identified by expert analysis," they said.

Flight Global says the extended area would cover 95 per cent of MH370's final projected flight path.

"We're following the seventh arc, the seventh handshake and that is the flight path. We will extend north, south, east and west, expanding the area within the high priority area," said Liow.

The announcement comes after Captain Simon Hardy, a senior Boeing 777 captain with a major commercial airline, claimed to have pinpointed the location of the wreckage.

Hardy spent six months analysing the known MH370 data and concluded that the plane was intentionally landed on the Indian Ocean and sank intact just 20 nautical miles (37km) outside the current search area. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the search, described his theory as "credible".

Officials investigating the Germanwings plane crash are reportedly going to examine whether the co-pilot 每 who appeared to deliberately fly the aircraft into the French Alps 每 was inspired by the MH370 tragedy.

French prosecutors said yesterday that the co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, had a "deliberate desire to destroy" the plane. The 27-year-old was "alone at the controls" and refused to open the door of the cockpit to the pilot as he intentionally put the plane into descent, killing all 150 people on board, they said.

"Investigators will now be looking to see if the apparently deliberate actions by the Germanwings co-pilot were inspired by any other recent disasters including the ongoing mystery of Malaysia Airlines MH370," says the Daily Telegraph.

The newspaper says there are "striking similarities" between this week's crash and some of the leading theories about Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, which disappeared in March 2014.

Several experts and former pilots have said that MH370 could only have swerved off its course from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March due to sabotage.

Evidence to show what happened to MH370 is limited and circumstantial, but the "rogue pilot theory" has emerged as the most plausible explanation among several, said the New York Times, just before the first anniversary of the plane's disappearance.

Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah has been identified by Malaysian police as the prime suspect, although his family have vehemently defended him.

Captain Simon Hardy, a senior Boeing 777 captain with a major commercial airline, spent six months analysing the known MH370 data and concluded that the plane was intentionally landed on the Indian Ocean and sank intact.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the search, has since been in contact with Hardy to discuss his findings and has described his theory as "credible".

There are also "chilling similarities" between the Germanwings crash and the Mozambique Airlines flight TM470 disaster in November 2013, says the Telegraph.

Investigators said Captain Herminio dos Santos Fernandes locked himself inside the cockpit, ignored warning signals and did not allow his co-pilot back in moments before the plane crashed in the swamps of Namibia's Bwabwata National Park, killing all 33 people on board.

More than a year after Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 vanished en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing new details have emerged about the circumstances surrounding its disappearance. Chief among them is the revelation that the battery on the underwater locator beacon attached to the missing plane's black box had expired in December 2012, 15 months before the doomed aircraft took off.

On Sunday, the first anniversary of flight MH370's disappearance, investigators published an interim statement detailing technical information about the missing plane. Compiled by an international team established by the Malaysian government, the short report is supported by 585 pages of supplementary information which summarises the facts of the case.

This contains information about the MH370's maintenance record, the background of the crew, military radar tracking records and cargo consignments 每 although much of the detail confirms what experts had already established over the last year. Air traffic controllers lost radar contact with the aircraft less than 40 minutes after it took off from Kuala Lumpur. Based on satellite data and military radar, the plane is believed to have departed dramatically from its planned route and ended up in the Indian Ocean.

On the release of the report, Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak said: "Together with our international partners, we have followed the little evidence that exists. Malaysia remains committed to the search, and hopeful that MH370 will be found."

Here's what we learnt from the interim statement:

The battery for the underwater locator beacon attached to the flight-data recorder expired in December 2012, more than a year before the plane's disappearance, with no evidence that it had been replaced. The report said there was a "definite possibility" that the battery could still operate past its expiry date, but said "it is not guaranteed that it will work or that it would meet the 30-day minimum requirement". Greg Waldron at Flightglobal says this could have limited the search team's ability to locate the aircraft. However, the battery on the locator beacon of the cockpit voice recorder was working.

The report states that the aircraft's final nine voice transmissions came from Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah. This includes the final communication "Goodnight Malaysian three-seven-zero" at around 1.19am (local time), a minute or so before the aircraft's transponder ceased transmitting.

Investigators said they found no indications of unusual behaviour by the pilots or cabin crew before the plane took off. "There were no behavioural signs of social isolation, change in habits or interest, self-neglect, drug or alcohol abuse of the captain, first officer and the cabin crew," said the report. The team looked at CCTV recordings of the captain and first officer and said "no significant behavioural changes" were observed. They added that the captain's ability to handle stress at work and home was "good" and he had no known history of apathy, anxiety or irritability. "There were no significant changes in his lifestyle, interpersonal conflict or family stresses," it added. Investigators found no unusual health issues or financial irregularities either.

Investigators found that a shipment containing 221kg of lithium ion batteries on the flight was "inspected physically" in Penang, but did not go through additional security screening before it was loaded onto the plane. The batteries were not regulated as dangerous goods because the packing adhered to International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) regulations. The batteries, a known fire hazard on flights, were part of a 2,453kg shipment by Motorola that also contained chargers and radio accessories.

Despite the report going into hundreds of pages of detail, critics say it offers few fresh insights into the plane's disappearance and gives no explanation about what happened to the flight once it dropped off the radar. Heinrich Grossbongardt, an independent aviation expert, told German broadcaster Deutsche Welle: "As of today there are absolutely no indications of what may have happened on board. What we can say, is that there is no known technical failure mode, which would explain the aircraft's deviation from its planned flight path. So far as it's humanly possible to tell, we have to assume that it is the result of deliberate action."

MH370 search could be scaled back as fly-past theory gains support

Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has warned that the search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 cannot go on in its current form forever.

Almost a year after the plane's disappearance, Abbott promised families of the missing passengers that the authorities would keep searching.

"My pledge is that we are taking every reasonable step to bring your uncertainty to an end," he said during an address to Australia's Parliament. "I can't promise that the search will go on at this intensity forever. But I do reassure the families of our hope and our expectation that the ongoing search will succeed."

Flight MH370 left Kuala Lumpur on 7 March 2014 with 239 people on board, but disappeared on its way to Beijing.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the search, has scoured 26,800 square kilometres of the ocean floor but has so far found nothing, says the Sydney Morning Herald.

"It has been the largest ever underwater search carried out to date and so far only covered 40 per cent of the designated search area," it says.

But analysis by a British pilot, who believes the plane performed a final "fly-past" of Penang island before intentionally landing in the sea, suggests the search team might be looking in the wrong place.

Captain Simon Hardy, a senior Boeing 777 captain with a major commercial airline, spent six months analysing Inmarsat's satellite communication "handshake" arcs and using mathematical "reverse engineering" to arrive at his conclusion.

He believes that the missing Malaysia Airlines plane was intentionally landed on the water and sank intact about 100 nautical miles away from where ATSB is currently conducting its search, and outside the core target area being trawled.

His theory was first published on the aviation website Flight Global last year, but ATSB has since been in contact with Hardy to discuss his findings and has described his theory as "credible".

Hardy suggests that MH370's captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, who comes from Penang, performed a U-turn after turning off the flight's transponder.

After flying along the border between Malaysia and Thailand, the aircraft reached Penang and made three turns in quick succession.

"It took me months to work out what this was," Hardy tells The Sunday Times. "The clue was Ayers Rock [in Australia]. I have done the same manoeuvre there, to look down and get a great view. Somebody was taking a last emotional look at Penang."

He believes the "fly-past" holds the key to the perpetrator, suggesting that Shah did a "nice long turn and looked down on Penang".

David Learmount, an aviation expert from Flight Global, who spent weeks checking Hardy's calculations, says the theory is "thoroughly plausible".

Meanwhile, Australia, Indonesia and Malaysia are due to trial a new method of tracking planes, which enables flights to be tracked every 15 minutes rather than the current 30 to 40 minutes, reports the BBC. The tracking rate is expected to increase to five minutes or less if there is any deviation from a plane's expected route.

A British pilot's theory that flight MH370 performed a final "fly-past" of Penang island before intentionally landing in the sea has been described as "credible" by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau.

Captain Simon Hardy, a senior Boeing 777 captain with a major commercial airline, spent six months analysing Inmarsat's satellite communication "handshake" arcs and using mathematical "reverse engineering" to arrive at his conclusion.

He believes that the missing Malaysia Airlines plane was intentionally landed on the water and sank intact about 100 nautical miles away from where ATSB is currently conducting its search, and outside of the core target area being trawled.

His theory was first published on the aviation new website Flight Global last year, but ATSB has since been in contact with Hardy to discuss his findings.

The plane, which has been missing for almost a year, left Kuala Lumpur on 7 March 2014 with 239 people on board but disappeared on its way to Beijing.

Hardy suggests that MH370's captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, who comes from Penang, performed a U-turn after turning off the flight's transponder.

After flying along the border between Malaysia and Thailand, the aircraft reached Penang and made three turns in quick succession.

"It took me months to work out what this was," Hardy tells The Sunday Times. "The clue was Ayers Rock [in Australia]. I have done the same manoeuvre there, to look down and get a great view. Somebody was taking a last emotional look at Penang."

He believes the "fly-past" holds the key to the perpetrator, suggesting that Shah did a "nice long turn and looked down on Penang".

David Learmount, an aviation expert from Flight Global, who spent weeks checking Hardy's calculations, says the theory is "thoroughly plausible".

Meanwhile, Australia, Indonesia and Malaysia are due to trial a new method of tracking planes, which enables flights to be tracked every 15 minutes rather than the current 30 to 40 minutes, reports the BBC. The tracking rate is expected to increase to five minutes or less if there is any deviation from a plane's expected route.

New evidence suggests that the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 may have been deliberately flown off course in the direction of Antarctica, a documentary team has found.

Aviation disaster experts analysed data from the night the plane went missing and confirmed that the Boeing 777 flew on for "several hours" after it lost radio contact.

The team's examination shows that the plane, which vanished last March, executed three separate manoeuvres after its final radio call, first turning left, then turning twice more to fly west and then south towards Antarctica.

Malcolm Brenner, an aviation disaster expert interviewed for a new National Geographic documentary, said that the manoeuvres appeared to indicate that someone in the cockpit "deliberately flew MH370 off course", the Daily Mail reports.

The theory comes against a backdrop of renewed hope for families of the MH370 passengers that the missing plane will be found, after the man in charge of the current underwater search expressed confidence that wreckage would be discovered in the next three months.

Australian Transport Safety Bureau Chief Commissioner Martin Dolan said he was confident that his team's underwater search would locate the plane.

"I don't wake up every day thinking 'this will be the day' but I do wake up every day hoping this will be it, and expecting that sometime between now and May that will be the day," he said.

"It's been both baffling and from our point of view unprecedented 每 not only the mystery of it, but also the scale of what we're doing to find the aircraft. As we keep on pointing out, we don't have a certainty, only a confidence that we'll find the missing aircraft."

The absence of any surface debris from the missing plane has confounded many involved in the search, but Dolan said his team was not surprised that no remnants of the missing plane have yet been found, News.com.au reports.

It "would have been good to have found surface wreckage", he said, but his team was not expecting it. "We don't know how much debris there would've been on the surface in the first place, and it's possible any floating wreckage might have sunk," Dolan added.

MH370: couple on trial for stealing from passengers

A married couple in Malaysia are on trial for allegedly stealing more than 20,000 from the bank accounts of four passengers on missing flight MH370 in the months after the plane disappeared.

HSBC employee Nur Shila Kanan and her husband Basheer Ahmad Maula Sahul Hameed are accused of making dozens of illegal transfers and withdrawals from four accounts, amounting to RM110,643 (20,320 in today's exchange rate).

The bank discovered the withdrawals during an accounts audit in July last year, four months after the Malaysia Airlines flight vanished on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

The accounts belonged to two Chinese victims Tian Junwei and Ju Kun, and two Malaysian victims Hue Pui Heng and Tan Sze Hiang, reports The Star.

According to Ravi Arumugam, an HSBC customer service manager who gave evidence today, a bank staff member must have overseen the illegal cash transactions.

Money was transferred from the accounts of victims Ju, Hue and Tan into the account of the fourth victim Tian and then removed through dozens of ATM withdrawals at locations across Kuala Lumpur.

A further RM35,000 (6,400) was transferred from Hue's account to a local bank account belonging to one "Ali Farhan Khan" and withdrawn by a person using that name.

Nur Shila faces 12 charges of illegally transferring cash; theft; cheating to obtain approval for a debit card and a new internet banking application; and using forged documents at a branch of HSBC.

Her husband, a mechanic, faces four charges of allegedly using a debit card and an ATM card to withdraw cash from the bank accounts.

Last month, an arrest warrant was issued for the couple after they failed to appear in court to answer the charges. They later turned up in court on 13 January.

Two tropical cyclones in the southern Indian Ocean have forced a temporary suspension of the search for Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Three ships involved in the search had to halt operations on Sunday as tropical cyclones Eunice and Diamondra were expected to whip up waves of up to 12 metres. The search is expected to resume tomorrow as the weather calms.

The Boeing 777, which had 239 people on board, has been missing for almost 11 months after it disappeared on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March 2014.

According to an update from the Joint Agency Coordination Centre (JACC), hi-tech equipment such as the Autonomous Underwater Vessel dangling under the sea by kilometres of cable, was retrieved safely before the severe weather conditions set in.

Three vessels, Fugro Discovery, Fugro Equator and Fugro Supporter, then left the area or "battened down" to see out the storm.

A fourth ship, GO Phoenix, is currently picking up supplies at the Port of Fremantle, Perth.

Around a third of the priority search area in the southern Indian Ocean has been scoured by the four vessels, jointly funded by Australia and Malaysia, without success, reports News.com.au.

The JACC has described the search as "unprecedented", with the "remote and previously unmapped" area reaching depths of 6,000 metres. "The search area contains underwater mountains, crevasses, ridges and 2,000 metre sheer cliffs, all of which may slow down the search," it explained.

The delay comes just days after the Malaysian government formally declared flight MH370 an "accident", opening the gateway for families of the passengers to seek compensation payments.

"This declaration is by no means the end," it added. "We will forge ahead with the cooperation and assistance of the governments of China and Australia. MH370, its passengers and its crew will always be remembered and honoured."

MH370 shot down by US, says former airline CEO

The former director of French airline Proteus has suggested that a US military jet shot down Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 over the Indian Ocean to prevent it being used to attack an airbase on Diego Garcia.

Marc Dugain also said that he had been warned off delving too deeply into the fate of flight MH370 by a British intelligence officer who told him that he was taking "risks", according to France Inter.

The Independent reports that Dugain had travelled to the Maldives and interviewed witnesses "who reportedly told him they had seen a 'huge plane flying at a really low altitude' towards the island bearing the Malaysia Airlines colours".

MH370 conspiracy theories: what happened to the missing plane?

According to the official account of MH370's final hours, the missing plane probably did make a sharp left turn to fly west towards the American base on the British territory of Diego Garcia soon after it lost radio contact with air traffic controllers.

However, it is believed to have made another left turn thousands of miles before it reached the base, which is about halfway between Indonesia and East Africa. MH370 then flew south before running out of fuel and crashing into the ocean about 1,000 miles off the Australian coast, according to an analysis based on satellite tracking data.

In an article for Paris Match, Dugain rejects this theory and says the plane will not be found in the search zone.

Instead he argues that in order to cover up evidence of its actions the US sent air accident investigators on a wild goose chase. He said it was not possible that an object the size of a Boeing 777 could disappear without trace unless someone was deliberately concealing its whereabouts.

Since Malaysia Airlines lost contact with the plane in March last year, MH370 conspiracy theories have proliferated. Meanwhile investigators continue their search in the southern Indian Ocean.

Malaysia Airlines' website has been hacked by a group describing itself as the "Lizard Squad - Official Cyber Caliphate" and claiming links with Islamic State.

Airline officials confirmed that the website has been 'compromised' but assured customers that bookings and other personal data were still safe and undamaged, the BBC reports. The website was back to normal soon after the attack.

The hackers chose to replace the front page of the website with an image of a tuxedo-wearing lizard and the message "404 - Plane Not Found", a reference to the missing flight MH370 which is believed to have crashed off the coast of Australia last March.

The Lizard Squad previously claimed a cyber attack on Sony and Microsoft online networks.

It is unclear why the IS-linked hackers chose to attack a Malaysian company. However, The Guardian says that Malaysia has recently joined the debate about the recruitment of foreign fighters for the terrorist organisation.

Last week Malaysian authorities said they detained 120 people suspected of having sympathies with IS or planning to travel to Syria to join the extremist group.

The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 is not expected to finish as early as previously thought, due to a technical fault on board one of the vessels scouring the Indian Ocean.

The Fugro Discovery, one of three ships involved in the operation developed a "system issue" with a component of its search equipment, according to investigators from Australia's Joint Agency Co-ordination Centre (Jacc), who have been leading the mission.

As a result, its "search activities have been suspended while the issue is remedied", they told Sky News Australia. However, the search efforts conducted by two other vessels will continue throughout the Christmas period and into the New Year.

This means the search of the priority zone, a 23,000 square smile arc in the Indian Ocean, will be not be finished by May, as had previously been predicted.

Flight MH370 disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March this year with 239 people on board. No trace of the plane or its passengers has been discovered since, despite an extensive 57m search operation off the western coast of Australia.

Nine months later, relatives of those on board the plane say they still believe that their loved ones will be found, The Guardian reports. "I still have hope. Maybe 1 per cent 每 maybe half a per cent 每 but I still keep the hope," said one family member.

MH370: search for missing plane could be over by May

Search crews scouring the remote area of the Indian Ocean in which the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 is believed to have crashed say they could have completed their work by May next year.

The priority zone, a 23,000 square smile arc off the coast of Western Australia, was drawn up using analysis of electronic "pings" - bursts of data transmitted by the missing aircraft and detected by satellites.

Investigators from Australia's Joint Agency Co-ordination Centre (Jacc), who have been leading the search, say they have now covered two thirds of the priority zone. As long as there are no delays with the vessel, equipment or weather, they say, the search will be finished within the next five months.

Flight MH370 was en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing when it vanished on 8 March this year with 239 people on board. No trace of the Boeing 777 or its passengers has been seen since, despite a 57m search operation.

Last week, families of the victims gave investigators DNA samples in order to help identify victims if any wreckage is found, the Australian Associated Press reports.

Danica Weeks, whose husband, Paul, was on the flight told the Australian Sunday Times that his disappearance continues to haunt her and that she will not be able to rest until the wreckage is discovered.

"You are searching the news constantly for any small piece of information that may give you a clue to their whereabouts,"she said, "and your heart pounds every time the phone rings. Is this it? Have they found something?"

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 could only have swerved off course due to sabotage, a retired Boeing 777 pilot has claimed.

The plane is believed to be located along the so-called 'seventh arc' in the southern Indian Ocean, after it veered off its flight path from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March.

Byron Bailey, a former RAAF fighter pilot, charter pilot and senior captain with Emirates, said that even if something happened to the flight crew, the plane would have flown itself to Beijing via its pre-programmed computer.

"For it to alter course and fly a different route as alleged would require the deliberate manual intervention of someone with considerable expertise of FMS [flight management computers] protocols, which suggests a pre-planned intention," he writes in Australia's Daily Telegraph.

If the flight had crashed in an accident, "masses of debris would be floating around for a long time afterwards", says Bailey.

He also explains that the 777 has 80 computers and three sets of nearly every system on board 每 including three radios, three radar transponders, three autopilots and three flight management computers 每 to ensure a "practically fail safe" operation.

"A failure of one will result in transfer, usually automatically, to another. This means for air traffic control to lose secondary radar contact with MH370 someone had to deactivate all three by manually selecting them to off," says the former pilot.

He cast doubt on the theory of an electrical failure, pointing to the plane's five generators, and ruled out a fire or decompression, saying that there would have been time to contact air traffic control.

"Then there is the hijack theory," he says. "On board were two pilots and 14 cabin crew. None of the passengers came under suspicion and the flight deck is reinforced and kept locked. Airlines have security protocols in place to prevent unauthorised access to the flight deck."

Bailey says he personally believes the plane is still intact and in 6,000m of water. He adds: "If we search long enough it will be found."

MH370: Investigators 'can't agree where missing plane went down'

The search for flight MH370 is reportedly being hampered by disagreements between five agencies involved in the investigation about the location of the missing plane.

Boeing, the Thales Group, the United States National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), British satellite company Inmarsat and the Australian Defence Science and Technology Organisation are now "divided in their conclusions about where to concentrate the search", the Wall Street Journal says.

Martin Dolan, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau chief commissioner, insists that the various viewpoints are an important part of the multi-agency search for MH370.

"There is no disagreement," Dolan said, "just the deliberate application of differing analysis models."

But differences of opinion have led to search vessels being sent to a range of locations several hundred miles apart, the Daily Mail reports.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 was en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing when it vanished on 8 March this year with 239 people on board. No trace of the Boeing 777 or its passengers has been seen since, despite a 57m search operation.

The airline is facing a negligence case brought by two sons of a businessman who was on board the flight, and has been given until 15 December to reply in court.

"The plaintiffs allege that Malaysia Airlines was negligent and failed to take all due safety measures, and that the government did not try to establish contact within reasonable time after the flight disappeared from radar," Australian site 9news.com.au reports.

The lawsuit also blames immigration officials in Kuala Lumpur for failing to spot people travelling with fake identification. Two Iranian passengers are believed to have used forged ID papers to board flight MH370, although investigators have ruled out their involvement in any plot to bring down the aircraft.

Malaysia Airlines last week apologised for a promotional tweet saying: "Want to go somewhere but don't know where?" Commentators suggested that the campaign was in poor taste given the ongoing mystery about the whereabouts of MH370.

MH370: new drift model could 'help find aircraft debris'

Australian officials tasked with searching for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have enlarged the area in which they say wreckage is likely to come ashore.

Scientists are working on a new "drift model" which predicts where debris transported by ocean currents will eventually end up.

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau originally thought that the first objects would drift ashore on the Indonesian coast of Sumatra after 123 days, according to Reuters.

"We are currently working ... to see if we can get an updated drift model for a much wider area where there might be possibilities of debris washing ashore," said Australian search coordinator, Peter Foley.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared more than nine months ago en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. There have since been countless reports of debris being washed ashore on the Australian coastline, but none has so far been linked with the missing Boeing 777.

However, officials remain optimistic. "Something is going to wash up somewhere on the beach, most probably in Sumatra," Foley said. "Things in the ocean take a long time to come ashore."

It is believed that the 239 people died on flight MH370, although no trace of any passenger has yet been found.

Australian authorities continue to search a large swathe of the southern Indian Ocean for the wreckage. Over 2,600 square miles of sea floor has so far been searched.

MH370: Details of who was on missing plane are being withheld, says airline chief

A senior airline executive has said that he believes information about who was on board Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 is being withheld and called into question the role of the Malaysian military the night that the plane went missing.

Sir Tim Clark, chief executive of Emirates, also dismissed the theory that one of the pilots had deliberated crashed the Boeing 777. A suicidal pilot would have dived straight into the sea, he said, rather than performing the complex procedure that would disable the aircraft's navigation beacons.

"That requires you to leave the flight deck and go down through a trap door in the floor," he said. "But somehow this thing was disabled so much so that the ground tracking capability was eliminated."

The comments came to light in the previously unpublished transcript of an interview conducted by specialist German aviation journalist Andreas Spaeth.

In it he suggested that people involved in the investigation into flight MH370, which disappeared on 8 March with 239 people on board, are concealing information about who was on the plane.

"We need to know who was on this aeroplane in the detail that obviously some people do know," he said, and "we need to know what was in the hold of the aeroplane, in the detail we need to know, in a transparent manner.

"I think we will know more if there is full transparency of everything that everybody knows. I do not believe that the information held by some is on the table,"

Clark also questions why the Malaysian military allowed the aircraft to proceed unhindered on its unusual course.

"This is a very busy part of Southeast Asia, the notion that we should not be able to identify if it is friend or foe, or we can on primary radar and do nothing about it, is bizarre," he said. "What would have happened if the aircraft would have turned back to fly into the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur?

In excerpts of the interview previously published by Der Spiegel, Clark questioned whether flight MH370 had even ended up in the southern Indian Ocean, where search teams are now scouring the ocean floor for the aircraft's wreckage.

"We have not seen a single thing that suggests categorically that this aircraft is where they say it is, nothing, apart from this 'handshake', which calls my electronic engineers to start thinking 'what is all this about?'."

The "handshake" refers to a weak electronic signal believed to have come from flight MH370, although Clark says it may have come from another source.

In an article he wrote for the Wall Street Journal in May, Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, said criticism of his government was misplaced.

"Without physical evidence, or a clear explanation for why this happened, peoples' attention has naturally focused on the authorities 每 and Malaysia has borne the brunt of the criticism," he wrote.

"In the passage of time, I believe Malaysia will be credited for doing its best under near-impossible circumstances."

According to the Sydney Morning Herald, Malaysia Airlines "could not comment on whether pilots were trained to disable Acars or how many people on board the flight would have known how to stop the system, as the matter was under investigation".

MH370 debris 'will start washing up in Indonesia'

Wreckage from flight MH370 will soon start appearing on Indonesian beaches, according to the man co-ordinating the search for the missing plane.

"We've had many people handing things into the local police," said Peter Foley of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau. "We send it off to Boeing and they identify it, but as yet we haven't positively identified anything from the aircraft."

In the nine months since MH370 vanished en route from Kuala Lumpur to Bejing, no trace of the aircraft has been found 每 but Foley remains optimistic.

"Something is going to wash up somewhere on the beach, most probably in Sumatra," he said. "Things in the ocean take a long time to come ashore."

According to the Daily Mirror, the search for the Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 employs 180 people. It is believed that 239 people died on board the aircraft, although no body has ever been found.

"Two vessels are still working around the clock using 'side-scanning' sonar equipment," the Mirror reports. "Crews of up to 40-people man the ships working in shifts to ensure the search never pauses."

MH370: video explains why missing plane has not been found

International investigators searching for Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have released a video blaming rough conditions, a remote location and deep water for the slow progress in finding the missing plane.

The four-minute video, posted by the Joint Agency Coordination Centre on YouTube, gives an overview of the search, explaining how experts identified the area in which the missing plane, a Boeing 777, is most likely to have gone down, what equipment is being used in the search and the most significant challenges they have encountered so far.

According to the government-funded video: "Searching for MH370 is a complicated task. The search area is a long way from land, the water is very deep and the seafloor is largely uncharted."

It adds: "To help find the missing aircraft a bathometric survey of the seafloor was carried out, followed by a detailed underwater search using submersible vehicles fitted with sonar systems which will be used to detect the aircraft."

The area being investigated is described as "a thin long line that identifies all the possible points the last communication between the aircraft and the communication satellite could have taken place".

Some locations under investigation lie four miles below the surface. According to the video "daylight can only penetrate in some areas" and on the "deep sea floor there is no sunlight, which makes has made progress in the search slow.

Last week, a senior Malaysia Airlines official, Hugh Dunleavy, appeared to suggest that the search for MH370 could be abandoned by the end of the year and the missing plane officially declared "lost", the Daily Mail reports.

But the JACC video seems to suggest that the investigation will not conclude any time soon: "The governments of Australia, Malaysia and the People's Republic of China will all continue to provide information and support as the search continues," the video concludes.

MH370: 'shock' at claim that plane will be declared 'lost'

Families of missing MH370 passengers were left "shocked and confused" after a Malaysia Airlines official suggested the plane could be declared "lost" by the end of this year, raising fears that search efforts in the Indian Ocean could be called off.

The airline's commercial director Hugh Dunleavy allegedly told the New Zealand Herald that the Australian and Malaysian governments were trying to set a date to formally announce the loss of MH370 and that this was likely to be set by the end of the year.

"We don't have a final date but once we've had an official loss recorded we can work with the next of kin on the full compensation payments for those families," he is quoted as saying.

This raised fears that the huge undersea search for the missing plane would be terminated.

Voice 370, an association set up for families of those on board the aircraft, said relatives had been left "shocked and confused" by Dunleavy's "astounding" comments, especially since the second phase of the search had only just begun.

"Such [a] unilateral declaration brings intense agony and confusions to family members and makes us lose faith in the search effort," it said.

Malaysia Airlines has since issued a statement to say the comments were Dunleavy's "personal opinion". The only official updates would be coming from the Australia-based Joint Agency Coordination Centre (JACC), it said.

JACC has acknowledged that Dunleavy's comments were "greatly disturbing" for the families and loved ones of the passengers and crew.

"Australia continues to lead the search for MH370 on behalf of Malaysia and remains committed to providing all necessary assistance in the search for the aircraft," it said. "We owe this to the families of those on board MH370."

The Malaysia Airlines plane disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March with 239 people on board. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has only recently signed a multimillion dollar contract to search a large swathe of the southern Indian Ocean.

Voice 370 said JACC has assured families that all possible efforts will be exhausted before the search is called off.

The two children of a Malaysian man who vanished on flight MH370 are suing Malaysia Airlines for negligence.

Jee Kinson, 13, and Jee Kinland, 11, are seeking damages for mental distress, emotional pain and loss of support after their father Jee Jing Hang disappeared with the doomed flight en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing in March.

Their lawyers have filed a lawsuit at the Kuala Lumpur High Court claiming that the airline failed to contact the plane within a reasonable amount of time after it disappeared.

The BBC says it is believed to be the first legal case filed in Malaysia since the incident on 8 March.

In June, the Wall Street Journal reported that the families of the 239 victims would each be paid an initial amount of 30,000 in compensation. However, many of the families refused to accept the payment, arguing that it had not been proven that their loved ones had died.

Each family was also given around 3,000 to cover their expenses as they waited in hotels in Kuala Lumpur and Beijing to hear news of the aircraft's fate.

Malaysia's foreign affairs department said a final compensation payment would be decided "when the issue of the tragedy" is over.

Under International Civil Aviation Organisation rules, passengers' relatives can receive up to around 109,500 in compensation. But the final amount can typically only be determined after the plane is found and an inquiry establishes the cause of the crash, said the WSJ.

Nevertheless, Arunan Selvaraj, the lawyer for the Jee children, is hoping that their lawsuit will be successful. "We have waited for eight months. After speaking to various experts, we believe we have sufficient evidence for a strong case," he said. "A big plane missing in this age of technology is really unacceptable."

Their lawsuit accuses the Malaysian government and air force of gross neglect and breach of duty, but Selvaraj says that without evidence and the whereabouts of the plane, it currently looks "very difficult" to bring a suit against the country's government and military.

MH370: search to 'intensify' as new phase begins

The hunt for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 is about to intensify as another search vessel joins the operation, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has said.

A ship that was involved in the first phase of the operation has finished mapping out the seabed and is expected to join two other vessels in their underwater search for the wreckage "in the coming days".

Multi-beam sonar mapping technology has been used to chart 60,000 square miles of seabed in the remote region of the southern Indian Ocean where flight MH370 is believed to have crashed.

"[This] provided knowledge of the terrain that was essential for the underwater search," says the ATSB.

The two vessels already involved in the latest phase of the operation have so far examined about 1,000 square miles of the search area.

"While it is impossible to determine with certainty where the aircraft may have entered the water, the available data and analysis indicate that the most likely location lies close to a long but narrow arc in the southern Indian Ocean (where the aircraft last communicated with a ground station through a satellite)," ATSB noted.

In recent weeks, some airline industry insiders have raised new doubts that flight MH370 did end in the Indian Ocean. Tim Clark, head of Emirates, is among those calling for a fundamental review of the case.

The search efforts have been co-ordinated by Australian authorities and jointly funded by the Malaysian and Australian authorities. The total cost of the operation is expected to exceed $150 million.

Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 went missing on 8 March with 239 people on board.

MH370: Malaysia '99.9% sure' missing plane will be found

With the underwater search for Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 intensifying, the country's defence minister has said that he is "99 per cent sure" that the missing plane will be found.

Hishammuddin Hussein was speaking at the launch of the GO Phoenix, a ship equipped with a probe designed to scour the sea bed for signs of the lost Boeing 777.

"This is cutting-edge technology, he told Sky News. "My personal view based on experts' opinion [is] 99.9 per cent sure" that the plane will be found.

His comments come two weeks after British satellite company Inmarsat acknowledged that "significant uncertainty" remains about MH370's final flight path.

"The aircraft remained operational for at least seven hours after the loss of contact as the satellite terminal continued to transmit messages during this period," the company said, but analysis of the data could not conclusively determine the plane's final resting place.

Sir Tim Clark, the president and chief executive of Emirates, recently said that he was unsatisfied with the investigation into the fate of flight MH370.

"There hasn't been one overwater incident in the history of civil aviation 每 apart from Amelia Earhart in 1939 每 that has not been at least 5 or 10 per cent trackable," he told Der Spiegel. "But MH370 has simply disappeared. For me, that raises a degree of suspicion. I'm totally dissatisfied with what has been coming out of all of this.

"Every single second of that flight needs to be examined up until it, theoretically, ended up in the Indian Ocean 每 for which they still haven't found a trace, not even a seat cushion."

He also questioned whether data exchanged between the aircraft and Inmarsat's satellite, which has been used to predict the aircraft's flight path, was reliable.

"We have not seen a single thing that suggests categorically that this aircraft is where they say it is," he said, "apart from this so-called electronic satellite 'handshake', which I question as well."

On Wednesday, Hishammuddin dismissed the suggestion that the search had been mishandled.

"All that could have been done to find the plane at this point has been done," he said.

A second ship, the Fugro Discovery, has now joined the underwater search for the remains of MH370 in a remote area of the southern Indian Ocean more than 1,000 miles west of Australia.

Flight MH370 went missing on 8 March with 239 people on board.

Tony Abbott has come under pressure to explain why he expressed confidence that early pings detected in the search for the missing flight MH370 were from the plane's black box.

The Australian prime minister had received no official briefing from his department or the special search envoy before making the comments, according to a report from The Guardian.

Christine Milne, the leader of Australia's opposition Greens Party, questioned whether Abbott acted recklessly in making the statement. In a Senate hearing yesterday, she pressed him to explain where he had obtained his information.

Abbott's comments came in the weeks after the Malaysia Airlines plane disappeared on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board.

At a press conference in China, he said that the search area had been "very much narrowed" after acoustic noises, or pings, were detected. He added that he was "very confident" that the pings were coming from the plane's black box.

However, Angus Houston, head of the Australian team co-ordinating the search, released a statement on the same day to stress that there had been "no major breakthrough".

Scientists later condemned Abbott's announcement as premature and lacking in detailed analysis 每 and the area that Abbott was talking about was subsequently discounted as the final resting place of MH370.

Families of passengers on board told Sky News at the time that they felt "helpless" and "angry", and questioned where Abbott had got his evidence from.

Australia's Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) last night said that Abbott had spoken without an official briefing from its staff, but insisted that he had been in constant discussion with the search team.

However, opposition leader Milne said that neither the Australian Maritime Safety Authority nor the Bureau of Transport and Safety had provided the advice to the prime minister.

"It was pretty reckless, surely, to go and make a statement like that if there's no detailed analysis at all of the substance," she told the Senate.

The fate of Malaysia Airlines' missing flight MH370 has been thrown into doubt once again after a British satellite company central to the search said that there was "significant uncertainty" about the final flight path of the Boeing 777.

As underwater searches for the aircraft continue in the southern Indian Ocean, Inmarsat 每 one of the companies whose analysis of satellite data has been critical to helping refine the investigation 每 has published a report on the data analysis techniques in the Journal of Navigation.

The report goes into "extraordinary detail" about the so-called "handshakes" between MH370 and satellite communication equipment prior to the plane's disappearance, News.com.au reports.

Through close analysis of the satellite data it is possible to deduce that "the aircraft remained operational for at least seven hours after the loss of contact as the satellite terminal continued to transmit messages during this period", but it is not possible to be certain about the plane's final resting place, Inmarsat concluded.

The main problem for analysts, the report said, is that the information they are working from cannot be refined significantly enough to confidently identify the plane's final resting place.

"A potential flight path has been reconstructed that is consistent with the satellite data ... but it is stressed that the sensitivity of the reconstructed flight path to frequency errors is such that there remains significant uncertainty in the final location," the report said.

The new report comes just two days after airline chief Sir Tim Clark, the head of Emirates, criticised the search for MH370 in Der Spiegel newspaper.

Clark, whose fleet has 127 aircraft identical to the missing Malaysia Airlines plane, said: "Our experience tells us that in water incidents, where the aircraft has gone down, there is always something. I am saying that all the 'facts' of this particular incident must be challenged and examined with a full transparency. We are nowhere near that."

He added: "There is plenty of information out there, which we need to be far more forthright, transparent and candid about. Every single second of that flight needs to be examined up until it theoretically ended up in the Indian Ocean 每 for which they still haven't found a trace, not even a seat cushion."

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 spiralled into the Indian Ocean as its fuel ran out, according to the first official account of the plane's final moments.

The report, by the Australian Transportation Safety Board, concludes that the Boeing 777's right-hand engine was likely to have cut out first, followed by the left engine.

"This scenario resulted in the aircraft entering a descending, spiralling, low bank angle left-hand turn and the aircraft entering the water a relatively short distance after the last engine flame out," said the report, which is based on months of flight simulations and complex mathematical models.

For the report, investigators assumed that the plane was flying on auto pilot at around 35,000ft and at a speed in excess of 460mph.

The conclusion will provide "fresh encouragement" that the plane is likely to be found close to where analysis of satellite communications suggests it hit the sea, about 1,120 miles off the west Australian coast, says The Times.

ATSB is coordinating the search for the missing plane and its 239 passengers and crew, who disappeared seven months ago on their way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The first of three specialist ships contracted to search the sea-floor arrived in the search zone on Monday.

The official findings dispute theories that the aircraft glided hundreds of miles in an unknown direction after its engines stopped.

In an earlier report in June, ATSB said the most likely theory was that the passengers and crew, including the pilots, had been incapacitated by oxygen starvation early in the flight and that the plane flew for more than six hours as a ghost flight.

The board believes the aircraft descended along the so-called "seventh arc" 每 an area within which the plane is believed to have made its final satellite "handshake". However, the report has moved estimates of where the aircraft hit the water slightly to the south.

The man leading the underwater search for flight MH370 has said he is "cautiously optimistic" that the missing plane will be found, as the next phase in the search operation began today in the southern Indian Ocean.

A ship contracted by the Malaysian government, the GO Phoenix, equipped with specialised sonar equipment, arrived in the area in which experts believe the missing plane went down.

Ananlysis of satellite data suggests that the Boeing 777, which disappeared on 8 March with 239 people on board, crashed into the ocean northwest of the Australian city of Perth.

Martin Dolan, chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is leading the underwater search, told the ABC that he was cautiously optimistic about finding the missing plane.

"Cautious because of all the technical and other challenges we've got," he said, "but optimistic because we're confident in the analysis. But it's just a very big area that we're looking at."

The previous search for the plane was halted four months ago to allow officials to conduct a massive underwater mapping exercise to survey the seabed using sonar devices.

The maps are regarded as essential to the search effort because the area being investigated is peppered with volcanoes, deep clefts and mountainous ridges. Such vast topographical features could damage the delicate equipment that will be dragged by the search team just 100 meters above the seabed.

"You can imagine if you're towing a device close to the seafloor, you want to know if you're about to run into a mountain," said Stuart Minchin, chief of the environmental geoscience division at Geoscience Australia.

Later this month, the GO Phoenix will be joined by two ships, the Equator and Discovery, sent by Dutch contractor Fugro, the BBC reports. Each ship will have a crew of 25 to 35 people who will work 24 hours a day for periods of up to 30 days at a stretch before returning to port to refuel and resupply.

"The most efficient way is to keep going," Dolan said. "But you have to be careful with the well-being of your crews, to be sure you're not pushing them too hard."

The operation is expected to last at least a year.

The Australian team leading the hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has released new images of the "priority" search area that show deep clefts and huge ridges that on dry land would reach higher than the European Alps.

The search team is currently carrying out an extensive sonar survey of an area in the Southern Indian Ocean in which the plane is thought to have gone down. Three-dimensional images produced during the operation show remnants of ancient volcanoes, huge peaks and 1,400-metre trenches.

Richard Westcott, the BBC's transport correspondent, says that until now "there were better maps of Mars than of this bit of the sea floor".

The Australian Transport Safety Bureau, the agency leading the search, said in a statement that the underwater survey "has revealed many of these seabed features for the first time".

The new images underline the complexity of the search for flight MH370. Since the Boeing 777 disappeared on 8 March this year with 239 people on board, 26 countries have helped with the investigation but so far nothing has been found.

The 23,000-square-mile search area was determined through analysis of a series of so-called "hello" messages sent by MH370 and received by a satellite before the plane disappeared.

Experts say that mapping the key features of the priority search area is the first step of the underwater search phase of the operation, which is due to begin next month.

Relatives of the passengers on board Malaysia Airlines' missing flight MH370 have gathered at a Beijing temple to commemorate six-months since the disappearance of the plane.

But prayers soon turned into a demonstration, with relatives demanding answers and accountability from the airline as well as the Chinese and Malaysian governments. Police reportedly attempted to disperse people, sparking a confrontation.

"Where are our children?" one woman shouted. "Mum and dad are waiting for you!" said another.

"I think Malaysia Airlines and the Malaysian government are cheating people 每 and while the whole world is watching, nobody will tell us anything," Dai Shuqin told The Guardian, whose sister was on the plane.

Investigators are no closer to solving "the greatest aviation mystery in recent history," the paper says, six months after flight MH370 disappeared on March 8 with 239 people on board.

At the end of this month the Dutch company Fugro will begin the next phase of the search for the missing aircraft, with officials saying they still remain "cautiously optimistic" that that the missing plane will be found.

However, not everyone shares their confidence. "We need to remember ＃ that it took two years to find Air France flight AF447, whose last position was known with much more precision," Daniel O'Malley from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau told the Sydney Morning Herald. "We're dealing with a much more challenging set of circumstances."

Relatives have been offered $50,000 in compensation from the airline but most have refused to accept it, according to Bian Liangwei, whose brother was on board the flight. "All we care about is getting back our relatives," said Bian. "Without any proof that they're dead, we can only assume they're still alive."

Malaysia Airlines in 'bucket list' gaffe after MH370 and MH17

Malaysia Airlines has been forced to rename a new "bucket list" competition condemned as "macabre" in the wake of the MH370 and MH17 disasters.

The beleaguered airline announced last week that it would give out 12 return tickets to Malaysia to its Australian and New Zealand customers as part of a promotion entitled "My Ultimate Bucket List".

Customers were asked to tell the airline which destinations were on their bucket list, a term often used to refer to the things someone wants to do before they die 每 or "kick the bucket".

Critics immediately attacked the airline for the tasteless marketing ploy. Time magazine called it "macabre" and "horrific" given that 537 people lost their lives flying on the airline this year, while even the Malaysian Insider admitted it "was not exactly the best choice of words".

All 298 people on flight MH17 died when the plane was shot down on the Russian-Ukraine border on 18 July and 239 people on flight MH370 are missing and believed dead after the plane disappeared on 8 March. MH370 inexplicably vanished on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. Investigators believe it went down in the Indian Ocean but no trace of the aircraft has been found.

"Malaysia Airlines has withdrawn the title of a recent competition running in Australia and New Zealand, as it is found to be inappropriate at this point in time," a statement by the airline said today. "The competition had been earlier approved as it was themed around a common phrase that is used in both countries. The airline appreciates and respects the sentiments of the public and in no way did it intend to offend any parties."

The contest has now been renamed "Win an iPad or Malaysia Airlines flight to Malaysia", with entrants invited to share their "life's ultimate to-do list".

Flight MH370 'veered off course earlier than thought'

After further analysis of satellite data, authorities searching for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 now believe the plane may have changed course earlier than had previously been thought.

As a result, they will focus their efforts on the southern part of the search area identified in the Indian Ocean.

The decision was based on refinement of satellite data relating to the final known movements of the Boeing 777 airliner, the BBC reports.

If the new analysis is correct, the final resting place for the wreckage of the MH370 may lie in a remote area of the ocean to the west of the Australian city of Perth.

The aircraft vanished with 239 people onboard while en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March. Investigators still do not know what happened to the flight, and say that finding the plane's black box recorders will be the key to understanding the aviation mystery.

In a press conference yesterday, the Australian deputy prime minister Warren Truss said that experts now believe that the jet "might have turned south a little earlier than we had previously expected".

The Dutch contractor Fugro Survey will begin a new search in three weeks using underwater vehicles equipped with side-scan sonar 每 a system than can create images of large areas of the sea floor 每 multi-beam echo sounders and video equipment to try to recover the missing plane, Truss said.

Malaysia maintains overall responsibility for the search, but Australia has taken on a practical role in coordinating the operation. China 每 the country that had the most citizens onboard the flight 每 reaffirmed that the search will "not be interrupted or given up".

Malaysia Airlines announced today that it will cut a fifth of its staff, including its chief executive, in a bid to revive the company's ailing fortunes and avert the threat of total collapse. The Malaysian government said that through its radical restructuring plan it hopes to achieve "sustained commercial viability" in four to five years.

One of the pilots in command of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 deliberately turned off the passengers' oxygen supply before performing a controlled ditching in the sea, a new book has claimed.

Goodnight Malaysian 370 suggests that all 227 passengers on board the Malaysia Airlines plane died of oxygen starvation up to four hours before aircraft sunk into the sea.

The book is written by Ewan Wilson, who holds qualifications as a transport safety investigator, and Geoff Taylor, deputy editor of New Zealand's Waikato Times newspaper.

The two men spent four months analysing the available evidence and conducting interviews with authorities in Malaysia and families of those on board.

Wilson believes the most likely scenario is that pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah deliberately depressurised the cabin, depriving those on board of air, reports the Daily Mirror.

Oxygen masks would have dropped down in the cabin but the supply was limited to just 20 minutes, he says. Wilson suggests that Shah may have had access to a more extensive air supply and locked his co-pilot out of the cockpit. A controlled ditching in the sea would also explain why no debris has been found, says Wilson.

An earlier report from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau concluded that passengers may have died from hypoxia, while Malaysian authorities previously named Ahmad Shah as their prime suspect. However, investigators have not found any evidence to prove that the pilot was responsible for the disappearance of the plane.

Wilson, a former commercial pilot, was chief executive of the cut-price New Zealand airliner Kiwi Air in the 1990s. However, the airline collapsed in 1996 and Wilson was subsequently found guilty on four counts of fraud relating to statements about his financial position at the time, reports the New Strait Times.

Goodnight Malaysian 370, which does not appear to offer conclusive evidence to support its theory, adds to the growing speculation about MH370's fate. Five months after the Malaysia Airlines flight vanished on 8 March there is still no trace of wreckage or debris from the Boeing 777.

At least two people have been arrested after 21,000 disappeared from the bank accounts of four passengers from the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

A bank in Kuala Lumpur noticed suspicious activity in one of the victim's accounts during an internal audit last month. It discovered that cash had been transferred into it from three other bank accounts belonging to MH370 passengers.

More than 6,500 was then transferred online to a local bank account under the name "Ali Faran" on 14 July. A person using this name withdrew the cash at a local bank and the remaining money was withdrawn from several ATMs around Kuala Lumpur and its suburbs, according to Malaysian newspaper the New Strait Times.

Kuala Lumpur's commercial crime investigation department said the bank lodged a police report on 2 August.

 A police source told the New Strait Times that the suspect was "believed to be a foreigner because a passport number was used to open an account".

Officers have arrested a 33-year-old female bank employee who is suspected of approving the renewal of a bank card belonging to one of the passengers. Her husband was also arrested.

The police source added: "More individuals are believed to be involved and we are in the midst of tracking and identifying them."

When asked if the bank accounts of other MH370 victims faced a similar fate, the source said it was "possible".

 The money appears to have gone missing four months after the plane vanished on 8 March on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 227 passengers and 12 crew members on board.

The search to find the missing plane has become one of the most expensive in aviation history. Teams are currently scanning a 60,000-square-kilometre area in the Indian Ocean, with a deep-water search planned for September.

A Dutch firm has been awarded a contract worth $52 million to look for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Warren Truss, Australia's deputy prime minister, said he was still 'cautiously optimistic' that MH370 will be found, the Guardian reports.

Truss said the Dutch company Furgo was chosen because it offered "the best value-for-money technical solution".

The announcement comes five months after MH370 went missing between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing with 239 passengers on board. Investigators are still no closer to discovering what happened to the plane, but believe that it crashed in the southern Indian Ocean.

Furgo will take charge of a new phase of the search operation in September, which will last for up to a year. The team will use sonar scanning to explore 23,000 square miles of seabed, roughly the size of Tasmania, which a surveying company has been mapping for the past several weeks.

Martin Dolan of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said he hoped the team would at least find "traces of where the aircraft has entered the water so we can provide closure to the families involved and information to support the investigation".

Truss said that the downing of flight MH17 had not affected their search for MH370 but did admit that both the airline and the Malaysian government were forced to focus on the most recent of "two extraordinary circumstances".

Two grieving family members of flight MH370 passengers claim they were "punched and beaten" by Chinese police officers, while two children were among 16 relatives to be locked up for nearly 24 hours.

The two female relatives said they were dragged and punched by six local police officers on 19 May after asking for the release of two other family members 每 a father and daughter 每 who had been detained. They claim the attack left them with numerous bruises and the elder of the two women had to stay in hospital for three days.

In a separate incident, 16 relatives were reportedly detained by police for nearly 24 hours on 14 July after asking to see Malaysia Airlines' official video footage of passengers boarding the doomed flight.

The nine men, five women and two boys 每 aged six and four 每 had gone to a Malaysia Airlines office in the northern suburbs of Beijing after learning that Malaysian relatives had seen the footage.

Police then came and detained them. "The police accused us of being an organised group, and said that we had an agenda," one relative told the South China Morning Post. "All we wanted was to find our loved ones 每 people with whom we share the same blood."

Another relative told the newspaper: "We were also warned that more than ten people gathering together is illegal."

It also emerged this week that several families of the flight MH370 victims have been offering counselling to the relatives of those who died last week on the downed flight MH17.

Jacquita Gonzalez, the wife of MH370 in-flight supervisor Patrick Francis Gomez, told The Guardian: "No one deserves to go through what they're going through. Right now they [the MH17 bereaved] are like we were in the beginning: quiet and wanting their space. But we are here for them, we actually know what they're going through, we know this is so painful, so hard."

Flight MH370 search 'will not be diminished' by MH17 crash

The downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 in eastern Ukraine will not distract from the search for flight MH370, Australia's deputy prime minister Warren Truss has said.

Concerns were raised after Angus Houston, head of the operation to find MH370, was dispatched to Ukraine to oversee the recovery of the Australian victims who died in last week's MH17 crash.

But Truss insisted that Australia's commitment to MH370 was "not in any way diminished" by MH17, which is believed to have been shot down by pro-Russian rebels.

"Clearly there have been things needed to be done urgently in relation to 17 but there is absolutely no interruption to the program for 370," he said.

However, he conceded that some meetings with Malaysian officials to agree the next stage of the search might be delayed "because they have so much on their plate".

No trace has been found of MH370, which disappeared while carrying 239 passengers from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.

The underwater search, which is expected to take up to a year, has been pushed back from August to September as an Australian-contracted ship Fugro Equator and a Chinese survey ship Zhu Kezhen map a 23,000 square-mile area of the Indian Ocean.

The survey of the ocean floor will allow a subsequent search using deep sea remote vehicles to avoid any hazard, reports The Australian.

Truss said there had been a "good response" for tenders for the major search operation, with a wide range of proposals in terms of cost. "It's a high profile search so it attracted, I think, some keen interest," he said.

Houston's role has been temporarily filled by Judith Zielke, a senior Australian civil servant.

"We remain fully committed to conducting a thorough undersea search of the likely impact zone in the Indian Ocean," said Truss in a press statement. "Australia owes it to the families of all of those on board MH370, the travelling public and indeed the wider world to solve this mystery."

Flight MH370: 'too little done' to prevent new disappearance

More than four months after the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, industry insiders have said that not enough is being done to prevent a repeat of the disaster.

They say the absence of any firm information about what happened on board the missing Boeing 777, along with airlines' fears about the cost of new regulations and the difficulty of securing international agreement, has meant that little has changed.

"Despite promises to ensure that such an event never recurs, there are doubts about how effectively the authorities will implement any recommendations to track commercial airliners," the Financial Times reports.

Remy Jouty, head of the French air safety body the BEA, told the paper that he had encountered resistance from airlines during previous attempts to tighten up aircraft monitoring.

After Air France flight AF447 crashed en route from Rio de Janeiro in June 2009, its flight recorders were not found for almost two years.

In response, French air accident investigators recommended that all large aircraft flying over water should be tracked continuously, and would be required to broadcast their position, altitude, speed and heading on a regular basis.

Neither of those recommendations was implemented.

"While the tracking technology exists," the paper reports, "Mr Jouty pointed to 'a need for governments at the international level to reach an agreement'. Although ICAO had discussed the proposals, he said 'one aspect' of its failure to require tracking was lobbying by airlines concerned about cost 每 a view corroborated by a senior airline executive."

As the search for flight MH370 continues, an Australian blog suggests that a new analysis of data released by independent investigators supports the theory that systems on board the aircraft may have been sabotaged soon after it left Malaysian airspace.

"The jet, with 239 people on board, flew in a circular or complex path for 52 minutes off the northern tip of Sumatra," it states, "before then flying an apparently straight course southwards for more than four hours before running out of fuel off the Indian Ocean coast of Western Australia."

Families of passengers on board the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 have failed to raise $5m to fund a private investigation into what happened to the missing plane.

Some families, frustrated by the failure of official inquiries to answer their questions, had sought donations through a crowd-funding website.

Due to the shortfall, the campaign's managers have extended the money-raising project by 30 days and lowered their target to just $100,000. They also announced that they would supplement public pledges with money raised through "other avenues".

In the weeks since it was launched on the popular crowd-funding site Indiegogo, the campaign, named The Reward MH370: The Search for the Truth, has raised just $92,000 from 935 funders 每 well short of its original multimillion dollar target.

In the campaign's update section, organiser Ethan Hunt wrote: "Today we have extended our campaign for another 30 days. We have done this to ensure we have every opportunity to raise the funds required to meet our objectives."

Originally scheduled to end this month, the campaign will now be extended until August 8.

According to the campaign's organisers, recent world events such as the World Cup tournament, fighting in Iraq and renewed clashes in Israel had distracted attention from their fundraising efforts.

The project hopes to offer a cash reward to any whistleblower who can reveal the truth about what happened to the missing plane, MSN reports.

"Reward MH370 is about air safety, knowing what happened and why it happened and then preventing it from happening again," Hunt said in his update.

Sarah Bajc, whose partner Philip Wood was one of the 239 passengers who was onboard the plane when it disappeared on 8 March, said: "We hope this will motivate people to continue to contribute to our efforts. Investigations take time, energy and money, but if done correctly, will yield results."

Flight MH370: airline called missing plane just twice in six hours

An Australian investigation into the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 每 last seen with 239 passengers onboard on 8 March 每 has found that the airline's staff called the missing plane just twice in six hours.

News.com.au says "close examination" of the report, published by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau last week, reveals that 1hr 17min after the pilots made their final contact, ground staff tried to ring the plane's satellite phone.

When there was no answer, they left an "astounding" five hours before the next attempted call. A serving Qantas pilot, Captain Richard Woodward, told the site: "Five hours is a long time if you're trying to search for the aeroplane."

He said that if the ground crew had made more calls to the plane it would have left rescuers with a clearer idea of where the flight might have ended up. He explained: "If they'd been calling the plane, the satellite would have tried to log on and the aircraft pinger would have tried to respond.

"That would have given you a distance from the station and they would have got a more accurate idea where the aircraft went. The very act of the pinging would have narrowed down where to look."

News.com.au says the report reveals that "numerous" other emergency procedures were not followed, including notifying other jets of the danger and asking them to try to make contact with MH370. It says the report paints a "woeful picture of air safety in the region".

According to Woodward, the report also shows that the jet was not pre-programmed by its pilot to crash. No one in the cockpit had used 'waypoints' to a course south over the Indian Ocean but this does not rule out the possibility that Zaharie Ahmad Shah used the autopilot to send the plane south.

Meanwhile, a surveying company has accused the Australian authorities of failing to investigate wreckage found in the Bay of Bengal, off the coast of Bangladesh. GeoResonance says it has no evidence that the debris comes from flight MH370, but argues that the possibility should be ruled out.

The company also criticised the British satellite firm Inmarsat for releasing only data that supported the theory that the missing plane flew south.

"The families and friends of those on board MH370 are dismayed that Inmarsat admitted the raw data released was only enough to prove their original model," the GeoResonance said, according to International Business Times.

"Everyone was expecting all of the raw data to be released, which would have allowed alternative models to be created. This could have shown up any errors that may exist in the original model which 'assumes' MH370 ended up in the Southern Indian Ocean."

The missing Malaysia Airlines plane appeared to suffer a mysterious power cut during the early stages of its flight, which experts believe was a deliberate attempt to hijack or sabotage the aircraft.

A report from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is investigating the disappearance, has revealed that the plane made an unusual "log on" request 每 known as a "handshake" 每 to a satellite less than 90 minutes into the flight. The investigators said this was "not common" in the middle of a flight and likely to be caused by a "power interruption".

David Gleave, an aviation safety expert from Loughborough University, told the Daily Telegraph it could have been caused by someone attempting to turn off the plane's communications and other systems.

"A person could be messing around in the cockpit which would lead to a power interruption," he said. "It could be a deliberate act to switch off both engines for some time. By messing about within the cockpit you could switch off the power temporarily and switch it on again when you need the other systems to fly the aeroplane."

Another aviation expert, Peter Marosszeky, from the University of New South Wales, said it was likely to be a "deliberate act of turning power off" by someone who knew what they were doing. "It would have to be a deliberate act to hijack or sabotage the aircraft," he said.

In the report, released last week, investigators said it was possible that the plane had flown on autopilot and crashed into the sea once the fuel ran out. They suggested that the crew and passengers may have been unconscious in the final stages of the flight following a climb that caused oxygen starvation. However, they stressed that the theory was only a "working assumption".

Inmarsat, the company that officially analysed the flight data, has said it does not know why the aircraft experienced a power failure. "It is another little mystery," said a spokesman. "We cannot explain it. We don't know why. We just know it did it."

Contrary to recent reports pointing the finger at the captain of Malaysia Airlines' missing flight MH370, Australian investigators have said they believe the most likely scenario was a "catastrophic event" that led to oxygen starvation on board the flight.

Members of the search team said that they believe the plane was flying on autopilot on a consistent course when it crashed into the ocean.

They stressed that the theory was only a "working assumption", The Guardian says, but a report from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau found parallels with other accidents which, in conjunction with the satellite data about the plane's flight path, suggested that the likely cause of the crash was "depressurisation and hypoxia rendering the crew unconscious".

The most recent example of a so-called "ghost flight", in which the aircraft flies on after all crew and passengers have died, was Helios Airways flight ZU522, which crashed in 2006 killing 121 people.

The theory that something similar happened aboard flight MH370 emerged as investigators announced a new search area, focused on a narrow arc of the Indian Ocean to the south of where the missing Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 was originally believed to have come down.

"The new priority area is still focused on the seventh arc, where the aircraft last communicated with the satellite," the Australian deputy prime minister said. "We are now shifting our attention to an area further south along the arc based on these calculations."

The next phase of the search operation is expected to begin in August. The team estimates that it will take at least a year to trawl the 23,000 square miles of ocean floor and could cost more than 30 million.

The search is already the most expensive operation in aviation history.

The missing Malaysia Airlines plane was almost certainly on autopilot when it crashed into the southern Indian Ocean, it has emerged, as investigators continue to focus their attention on the captain of flight MH370.

"It is highly, highly likely that the aircraft was on autopilot otherwise it could not have followed the orderly path that has been identified through the satellite sightings," Australia's deputy prime minister Warren Truss said.

He made the comments while announcing that teams searching for the missing plane will switch their attention further south, to an area 1,100 miles off the west coast of Australia.

Earlier this week it emerged that investigators have shifted their attention to Captain Zaharie Shah, who was in command of flight MH370, after discovering that he had used his own flight simulator to practise landing on a short island runway in a remote area of the Indian Ocean.

Although he had deleted the drills before the ill-fated flight, The Sunday Times reports that computer experts were able to retrieve them.

On Tuesday, Zaharie's wife confirmed that he made the final radio message sent from the aircraft, not his co-pilot, as Malaysia Airlines had initially said. The airline had also initially misreported the words spoken in the message 每 "good night, Malaysian 370" 每 which gave no hint of any problem on board.

Police have so far failed to turn up any hard evidence against the pilot, but he reportedly remains the prime focus of the criminal investigation after intelligence checks cleared all other passengers and crew.

"Investigators have previously refused to 'clear' the captain＊s flight simulator of suspicious activity," The Independent reports. "It now appears they found evidence of routes programmed to take a plane far out into the Indian Ocean and practising landing using a short runway on an island."

Detectives, who have conducted over 170 interviews, also found that Zaharie had made no social or professional commitments beyond the date of the missing flight, in contrast to his co-pilot and the rest of the flight＊s crew.

The investigation has not ruled out the possibility that flight MH370 was lost due to mechanical failure or terrorism, but the police view is that if it was the result of human action, the captain is the most likely perpetrator.

Malaysia＊s prime minister, Najib Razak, gave the first hint about the government＊s suspicions of "deliberate action by someone on the plane" on March 15.

Zaharie's relatives have defended him against any suggestion of wrongdoing and Malaysia's acting transport minister has dismissed the claims. Malaysian police have refused to confirm the contents of their interim report.

"The police investigation is still ongoing," they told The Sunday Times. "To date no conclusions can be made as to the contributor to the incident."

Nevertheless, the newspaper says that initial findings from the investigation have been sent to foreign governments and investigators.

Questions continue to circle around a mystery shipment that was on board Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 when it disappeared more than two months ago.

NNR Global Logistics, a Penang-based company that handled some of the cargo, has refused to reveal its contents.

The company admitted that 200kg of lithium-ion batteries formed part of the shipment. But a senior official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the Engineering and Technology (E&T) Magazine this formed only part of the consignment, which weighed a total 2,453kg.

He said that NNR Global has been told by its solicitors not to disclose details of the cargo because of the ongoing investigations into the missing aircraft.

E&T says that "what is even more surprising" is that the company that produced the batteries has also not been named.

Neither NNR Global Logistics nor Malaysia Airlines have been willing to identify the manufacturer, saying that it was "highly confidential".

When questioned, the airline said that the remaining weight was "radio accessories and charges" but this was not documented in the cargo manifest.

The manifest stated only that NNR shipped 133 pieces of one item, weighing a total of 1990kg, and 67 pieces of another item, weighing a total of 463kg.

There were also strict instructions on the manifest that the batteries should be handled with care and that there was a flammability hazard. However, several experts have ruled out the theory that the plane might have caught fire, as it would have struggled to fly on for several hours afterwards.

According to Malaysian newspaper The Star, NNR Global's base is less than 100m from Penang International Airport. "The complex is guarded by the police and only those with passes are allowed entry," said the newspaper.

Meanwhile, the underwater hunt for the missing Malaysia Airlines plane is continuing despite questions from some relatives of those onboard about whether investigators are looking in the right place.

The Malaysian government and the British satellite company Inmarsat yesterday released the data used to calculate the probable final resting place of Flight MH370.

"The newly-released technical data details satellite communications from before MH370's take-off on the Saturday morning at 12.41am to a final, 'partial handshake' transmitted by the plane at 8.19am," The Independent reports.

"The data includes a final transmission from the plane eight seconds later, after which there was no further response, as well as two ※telephony calls§ initiated from the ground at 2.39am and 7.13am that went unanswered by the plane."

Independent experts will now analyse the data and compare their conclusions with those of the official investigation.

However, Sarah Bajc, whose partner was on the missing aircraft, said the data released was incomplete. Some information had been omitted "to improve readability", she said, and the authorities had not provided data from previous flights following the same route, as families had requested.

Relatives of some of the passengers last seen boarding the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 on 8 March are starting a crowd-funding campaign to raise millions of dollars to help resolve the mystery of their disappearance.

A group of family members believes "somebody is concealing something" about the plane and wants to raise $3m (1.7m) to offer as a reward for information, says USA Today. They're seeking an additional $2m to hire a private investigator to look for the plane.

Relatives of passengers from the USA, Australia, New Zealand, France and India have launched a campaign on the crowd-funding site Indiegogo. It is not supported by families of the majority of passengers, most of whome were from China or Malaysia.

Sarah Bajc, a Beijing-based US citizen whose partner Philip Wood was on the flight, said: "We are taking matters into our own hands. I'm convinced that somebody is concealing something.

"If we just sit back on our heels and allow the existing path to continue, I don't think this will ever be solved."

She added she hoped to find "a whistle-blower who says, 'I know where to find this'" or a flight controller who can access new data. But she admitted the fund would inevitably be targeted by "unethical people".

However, the former Air Chief Marshal of Australia overseeing the southern Indian Ocean search, Angus Houston, rejected Bajc's claims. He said: "Nothing important is being concealed in any way. My approach has always been to be as open as I could possibly be."

Malaysian officials have always insisted the investigation is completely transparent, while acknowledging not all requests for information from relatives or the media can be met.

Meanwhile, The Times reports the Australian government has now put a contract to find the wreckage of the plane out to private tender. The government has budgeted $60m over the next year to fund the search and will give the winning bidder 300 days to get results.

A new book claims that the missing Malaysia Airways flight MH370 may have been shot down accidentally by US-Thai joint strike fighters in a military exercise that went wrong in the South China Sea. The book also claims that search and rescue efforts were deliberately sent in the wrong direction as part of a cover-up, the Daily Mail reports.

Flight MH370 每 The Mystery, by British writer Nigel Cawthorne, bases its theory on the account of a New Zealand oil rig worker Mike McKay who says he saw a jet liner "burst into fire" on the evening the flight went missing.

McKay said that he saw something "burning at high altitude" over the oil rig on which he works, the Songa Mercur located off Vung Tau, on the south east coast of Vietnam.

Cawthorne suggests that such evidence indicates that there may have been a cover-up over the disappearance of the MH370.

In the book's introduction, Cawthorne says that relatives of the plane's passengers will "almost certainly" never know the fate of those who went missing.

The family of Rod Burrows, an Australian man who was aboard the flight, criticised the timing of the book's release, 71 days after the jet went missing.

Irene Burrows, his mother, told the Melbourne Herald Sun that the publication of the book was premature. "Nobody knows what happened so why would anyone want to put out a book at this stage?" she said. "There's absolutely no answers. It's devastating for the families. It's ten weeks tomorrow and there's nothing," she said.

In a blog post, Malaysia's former prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, wrote that he believes the US Central Intelligence Agency must know something about the plane's fate.

"Airplanes don't just disappear," he wrote on his blog. "Certainly not these days with all the powerful communication systems, radio and satellite tracking and filmless cameras which operate almost indefinitely and possess huge storage capacities.

"For some reason, the media will not print anything that involves Boeing or the CIA."

In an effort to counter the increasing swirl of rumours, Malaysia said today that it would release data from the British satellite company Inmarsat which had been used to define the search area for the missing plane.

"In moving forward it is imperative for us to provide helpful information to the next of kin and general public, which will include the data communication logs as well as relevant explanation to enable the reader to understand the data provided," the Malaysian government said in a statement.

Relatives of those on board Flight MH370, who have been critical of Malaysia's response, have previously claimed that Inmarsat's data did not "support a definitive conclusion that no other flight path was possible," The Guardian reported.

THE flight path of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane suggests that it tried to dodge military radar and avoid flying over land, according to a preliminary report from Malaysian authorities.

Nearly two months after the plane disappeared on 8 March, families of the missing passengers were yesterday told to return home from the hotels in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur provided by the government.

Authorities also released an interim report, including a detailed map showing the flight's unusual route. The map suggests that the plane did not, as previously believed, follow a series of predetermined navigational waypoints, says the Daily Telegraph. Instead, it flew directly above the Strait of Malacca in a northwesterly direction and then turned again and travelled south for about seven hours before crashing in the Indian Ocean.

This route would have reduced the risk of detection by avoiding Indonesian territory, although it may have passed over the northern tip of Sumatra.

Aviation expert David Learmount told the Daily Telegraph: "It does look like the plane was trying to avoid Indonesian air space. It was an aircraft that has gone rogue. It didn't need to follow waypoints. There are no roads in the sky 每 pilots can go wherever they want."

Malaysia's government has come under fire for the way it has handled the incident, particularly for its contradictory statements. Authorities yesterday admitted that it took air traffic controllers 17 minutes to realise the flight had gone missing and four hours to activate a rescue operation. The interim report was dated 9 April but no explanation was given as to why it took three weeks to release the document.

The report also confirms that investigators still have no idea why the Boeing 777, which was supposed to fly from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people on board, flew off course.

Australian officials leading the hunt for the missing aircraft have said a full search of the suspected crash area could take up to a year.

MALAYSIA'S opposition leader has accused the government of deliberately concealing information about the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370.

Anwar Ibrahim has told the Daily Telegraph that the country's "sophisticated" military radar system would have identified the plane after it changed course and crossed back over Malaysia.

Anwar, former deputy prime minister of Malaysia, said it was "not only unacceptable but not possible, not feasible" that the plane had not been sighted immediately after it changed course.

An unidentifiable aircraft flying through the country's airspace would normally lead to military planes being quickly scrambled, but in this case there was no response, he said.

"We don't have the sophistication of the United States or Britain," he added, "but still we have the capacity to protect our borders."

Anwar has called for an international committee to take over the Malaysian-led operation because "the integrity of the whole nation is at stake".

He suggested that it was even possible that authorities on the ground were involved in the plane's demise. "One fact remains. Clearly information critical to our understanding is deemed missing," said Anwar. "I believe the government knows more than us."

A source close to the Malaysian government told the Telegraph that Anwar was attempting to exploit the tragedy for political gain, and described the criticism of Malaysia as "unfair". They said the situation is "unprecedented" and the "search has actually been handled well".

The plane's pilot, Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, was a passionate supporter of Anwar's pro-democracy opposition coalition. Anwar was convicted of sodomy just hours before the flight went missing, leading investigators to ask if the pilot had crashed the plane in an act of protest, but so far no evidence has been found to support the theory.

Flight MH370 is believed to have crashed into the Indian Ocean with no survivors, after disappearing on 8 March with 239 passengers on board.

The underwater search for the plane's black box began today. Two ships with capabilities to locate the black box's 'pinger' will search a 150 mile path. However, the locator beacon on the black box only has the battery power to last about a month before it ceases transmissions, that gives searchers just a few days left to find it.

Flight MH370: Plane 'has crashed with no survivors'

FLIGHT MH370 is assumed to have crashed in the southern Indian Ocean with no survivors, Malaysian officials have announced.

Malaysia＊s prime minister Najib Razak held an emergency press conference today, after objects were spotted in the ocean hundreds of kilometres south-west of Perth.

Razak said he had been briefed by the UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch, which had performed extensive analysis of satellite signals. They concluded that MH370 flew along the southern corridor and that its last location was in the southern Indian Ocean, reports The Guardian.

※With deep sadness and regret, according to this new data, we must conclude Flight MH370 ended in the southern Indian Ocean,§ he said.

Malaysia Airlines also released a statement to say: ※We deeply regret that we have to assume beyond any reasonable doubt that MH370 has been lost and that none of those on board have survived... We must now accept all evidence suggests the plane went down in the southern Indian Ocean.§

Chinese media has reported the families of victims will be taken from Beijing to Australia. Razak said the past few weeks have been "heartbreaking" for relatives and added: "I know this news must be harder still."

Objects were first spotted on satellite images of the area of ocean last week. Today, a Chinese military flight crew found new "suspicious" objects in the water, described as white and square-shaped. A Chinese ship was sent to the spot, along with the US Pacific command's black box locator. The US equipment, which is pulled behind a vessel at slow speeds, has highly sensitive listening capability that can detect pings from a plane's black box down to a depth of 6,100m.

An Australian plane subsequently saw four or five more objects, of different colours, in a different area of the ocean.

Meanwhile, it has emerged that one of the missing flight's pilots, Fariq Abdul Hamid, was on his first outing as a co-pilot on the Boeing 777 without a "check co-pilot" supervising him.

The plane, which had 239 people on board, had been missing since 8 March.

INVESTIGATORS say the pilot of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 had deleted data from the flight simulator he had in his home.

"Local and international expertise have been recruited to examine the pilot's flight simulator," Malaysia's acting transport minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, told reporters today.

Quoted in the Straits Times, he said: "Some data has been deleted from the simulator, and forensic work to retrieve this data is on-going."

All crew and passengers are currently being treated as innocent, officials insist, but focus on the pilots has increased since investigators said last week that the plane had been steered off course by a deliberate act.

The captain of the missing plane, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, had built a Boeing 777 simulator using parts and software he had bought off the shelf.

Hussein said that data logs had been cleared on 3 February, a month before Flight MH370 vanished, but he declined to comment on whether the deletion of data was considered unusual.

More than a week after the flight from Kuala Lumpur disappeared from radar screens, investigators seem no closer to establishing what happened to the missing plane.

The Wall Street Journal reports that an intensive search of the pilots and their families and associates has turned up no clues.

It says that "Malaysian and foreign intelligence agencies haven't reported anything in their backgrounds that suggests links to terrorist or criminal organizations, a person familiar with the situation has said."



COMMUNICATIONS systems on the missing Malaysia Airlines flight were deliberately disabled, the Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak has confirmed.

The plane then changed course and could have continued flying for a further seven hours, according to satellite and radar evidence. Razak says the new evidence is ※consistent with the deliberate action of someone on the plane§.

In light of the new evidence, he added, the investigation has "entered a new phase" and will now focus on the crew and passengers on board. A senior Malaysia police official says the home of the missing flight＊s pilot is being searched.

A Malaysian government official tells the Associated Press that investigators have concluded the plane was hijacked. The unnamed official says one or more people with significant flying experience hijacked the jet, switched off communication devices and steered it off-course.

However, Razak has stopped short of declaring that the plane was hijacked. When pressed on this point, he said: "We are still investigating all possibilities as to what caused MH370 to deviate."

Searches will now focus on two "corridors" - a northern corridor from the border of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan through to northern Thailand, and a southern corridor from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean.

The plane disappeared a week ago with 239 people on board. A search of the seas around Malaysia - involving 14 countries, 43 ships and 58 aircraft - has failed to locate the craft.

FAMILIES of passengers from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 reported that their loved ones' phones were "still ringing" days after the plane disappeared.

Relatives of the missing flight have grown increasingly desperate for information, with some throwing water bottles at airline officials and accusing them of "empty talk".

Several families said that when they dialled passengers' numbers, they could hear ringing tones on the other side even though the calls were not picked up, according to the Washington Post. Some believe this means the plane may have crashed onto land rather than water and raised hope that the authorities could simply triangulate the GPS signal of the phones.

However, Professor William Webb, from the Royal Academy of Engineering, told the Daily Mail that the phones "definitely won't be working" and that some mobiles simply ring before going to voicemail, similar to when they are out of coverage.

Meanwhile, ten countries, including the US, are currently helping in the search for the missing plane, which has expanded to cover an area stretching from China to the Andaman Sea.

Military sources have said the plane may have flown 350 miles after it last transmitted its location, while Malaysian police are carrying out psychological profiles of everyone on board the plane, says the Daily Telegraph.

The head of the American CIA, John Brennan, has said that "no theory can be discounted" in the hunt for clues. The possibility of pilot suicide or terrorism has not been ruled out, he said. However, authorities believe that at least one of the two Iranian men travelling with a stolen passport was not a terrorist but an asylum seeker.

It emerged yesterday that one of the pilots had previously entertained female passengers in the cockpit. He allegedly smoked and chatted to his guests, who stayed on the flight deck for take-off and landing, in breach of the airline's rules.

It was also disclosed that US authorities had only recently warned of the potential for a critical fault on Boeing 777 aircraft. Officials warned four months ago of a potential for corrosion in the aircraft fuselage, which could lead to rapid decompression and even to the aircraft breaking up in mid-air.