A new 1 coin will soon be coming into circulation - the first time the coin has been redesigned in more than 30 years.

However, the new 12-sided coin has led to concerns that it might not fit into machines or even supermarket trolleys.

Here we look at how the new 1 coin,which is introduced from March 28 - could affect you.

Anti-counterfeiting features of the new 12-sided coin include its distinctive multi-sided shape and dual-metal design, with a gold-coloured outer ring and a silver-looking centre.

It will also boast a hologram-like image that looks like a  symbol or a 1 when viewed from different angles.

The ¡®round pound¡¯ coin will stop being legal tender on October 15, meaning shoppers have a matter of months to spend or save their coins.

The launch of the new 5 note last year caused difficulties for some at ticket machines, and the Royal Mint has urged businesses to start preparing in advance, the Newcastle Chronicle reported.

A wide range of food stores from Asda to Sainsbury¡¯s have been asked what will happen to the trolleys needing 1 inserted when the new coins are introduced.

Trolleys will be adapted to fit both the new and current 1 coin, and also tokens in the shape of either coin.

An Asda spokesperson added: ¡°Our customers needn¡¯t worry about our trolleys. They will accept both the new 1 coin as well as the current version and trolley tokens.¡±

Ahead of the launch of the new 1 coin, there has also been concerns it might not work in machines used to get tickets for transport.

In Tyne and Wear, a spokesman for the Metro service confirmed work is already underway to ensure all their machines are ready for March 28.

The modification project will hopefully have all 224 ticket machines across the region ready for that date.

The Automatic Vending Association will be sending out engineers to upgrade around 500,000 machines in the UK.

Jonathan Hart from the Automatic Vendors Association said operators will send out engineers to upgrade them.

He expects the upgrades to cost millions - although operators should make their costs back thanks to the reduction in forged coins.

Older machines will have to be temporarily removed in order to be fixed, he added, although others can be fixed on site.