Navy Deploys P-8A Poseidon Aircraft to Search for Missing Republic of Korea Crew

MAYPORT, Fla. (NNS) -- The U.S. Navy deployed a Boeing P-8A Poseidon maritime aircraft to Galeo Air Force Base in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Apr. 6 to search for members assigned to a missing Republic of Korea vessel.

 

 The Republic of Korea ship, Stella Daisy, departed Brazil March 26, and is believed to have sunk in the South Atlantic with 22 crew members unaccounted for.

 

 An aircraft and crew from Patrol Squadron Eight (VP-8) deployed from Naval Air Station Jacksonville to conduct international search and rescue operations at the request of the Republic of Korea. The approximately 20-person crew departed from NAS Jacksonville to Galeo Air Force Base April 6. 

 

 Brazil is one of the nation's supporting the international search for missing crew members in the Republic of Korea vessel Stella Daisy's last known location. The government of Brazil has authorized the P-8A aircraft to operate from Galeo Air Force Base in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Operating out of Brazil will allow the P-8A missions to remain over the search area longer while supporting international efforts to locate the missing crew members.

 

 The U.S. is contributing this air asset to the international search and rescue effort being led by the Uruguayan Navy.

 

 U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command/U.S. 4th Fleet (USNAVSO/FOURTHFLT) fulfills the maritime role within U.S. Southern Command's joint and combined military operations. USNAVSO/FOURTHFLT employs maritime forces in cooperative maritime security operations to maintain access, fortify the ability of U.S. forces to work together with partner nations, and build enduring partnerships with the ultimate goal of enhancing regional security and promoting peace, stability, and prosperity in the Caribbean, Central, and South American regions.

 

 For more information, visit www.public.navy.mil/comusnavso-c4f, on Facebook at: www.facebook.com/NAVSOUS4thflt, or on Twitter at www.twitter.com/navsous4thflt.

 

 For more information, visit www.navy.mil, www.facebook.com/usnavy, or www.twitter.com/usnavy.

 

 For more news from U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command & U.S. 4th Fleet, visit www.navy.mil/local/cusns/.