We forecast GameStop Inc. to post a modest revenue decline and adjusted EPS of a little over $3 in 2018. We expect its Digital Products, Retail and Technology Brands segment to see continued growth, which will likely be offset by a double digit decline in the New Video Games Hardware business, according to our estimates. 2017 was a good year for gaming companies, as the launch of three strong consoles pushed the hardware sales for the company. Nintendo Switch was a massive success story with over 10 million units sold in nine months since its launch in March, 2017. This is more than the Wii U¡¯s units sold in its five year lifetime. However, the hardware sales are cyclical in nature and is driven by new launches. With new launches in 2017, it is unlikely to see any major launches in 2018, and this will weigh on the company¡¯s New Video Games Hardware segment. Within hardware sales, Nintendo Switch should continue to perform well in 2018.

We have created an interactive dashboard on GameStop¡¯s expected performance for 2018. You can adjust the revenue and margin drivers to see the impact on the company¡¯s performance. Below we discuss our expectations and forecasts for the company.

We estimate GameStop¡¯s New Video Games Hardware sales to decline 15% to $1.48 billion in 2018. As discussed above, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft¡¯s Xbox One X launch in 2017, spurred video games hardware sales in 2017. In fact, the hardware sales were up a solid 28% (y-o-y) to $4.71 billion in 2017. The sales will likely cool in 2018, thereby impacting the company¡¯s New Video Games Hardware segment. However, we don¡¯t expect a significant decline for New Video Games Software segment, and estimate the segment revenues to be $2.43 billion. The segment saw a 4% growth in 2017, led by popular titles, including Nintendo¡¯s Zelda: Breath of the Wild, which was also ranked as Game of the Year, and sold over 7 million units. Other games which were top grossers in 2017, included Destiny 2, and Call of Duty WWII. Looking at 2018, there are a lot of sequels lined up for release, including Red Dead Redemption 2, Super Smash Bros., and Kingdom Hearts 3. However, it may be difficult to match the overall sales generated in 2017, and we expect low-mid single digit decline in 2018 segment sales for GameStop.

Digital Sales To Continue To See Steady Growth

Looking at GameStop¡¯s Pre-Owned Video Games Products, we expect a modest decline in revenues to $2.1 billion in 2018. Revenues are dependent on the releases of new console systems, because the customer¡¯s focus shifts towards the current generation platforms when a new gaming console is launched. For instance, the launch of new consoles in 2017, including Nintendo Switch, will likely lead to a decline in demand for older generation platforms. As such, going forward, with technological advancements, and newer consoles in the market, demand for older platforms and consoles may decline. It should be noted that the segment sales have been on a decline over the last four years, and we expect this trend to continue in the near term.

GameStop¡¯s Digital Products, Retail and Technology Brands segment has been on a stellar run with a CAGR of over 15% over the last four years. This can partly be attributed to a shift towards the digital platform. The gaming world has been revolutionized by the advent of mobile gaming in the last few years. Casual gamers are turning towards mobile and tablet platforms. To make matters worse, publishers like Electronic Arts and Activision Blizzard have cut down on the number of titles launched and are instead focusing on efficiency through the digital domain. GameStop has been able to adapt to this trend by pre-selling digital downloadable content and selling it on the day of launch. The company has also built up long standing relationships with publishers which allow it to maximize its offerings.

Furthermore, GameStop has been expanding its technology brand business in the recent years, and this trend is expected to continue in the near term. Technology brands accounted for $803 million of revenues in 2017, and are expected to grow in the coming years, as the company targets to expand its technology brand stores. Accordingly, we estimate GameStop¡¯s Digital Products, Retail and Technology Brands segment revenues to grow 5% to $2.9 billion in 2018.

We forecast GameStop¡¯s Earnings Per Share of $3.13 in 2018, and a price to earnings multiple of 6x, which translates into a price estimate of $19, which is much higher than the current market price of around $13.50.