While still positive for the year, US stocks are off their all-time highs set back in September amid slowing earnings growth and rising rates. There's been a fair amount of changes beneath the surface in recent months, including the reorganization of 3 of the 11 stock market sectors.

If you are reassessing the US stock allocation of your portfolio, Fidelity's latest sector scorecard suggests technology, consumer discretionary, and materials stocks may be best positioned for the coming months, based on 4 key factors. Read on to see where the 11 sectors stack up heading into the final stretch of 2018.

Most stock market sectors had a strong Q3, with technology, consumer discretionary, and health care leading since January 1. Tech and consumer discretionary had the most positive scorecard indicators and an overweight signal from our sector strategist, Denise Chisholm. Chisholm's view on each sector is presented in the "Strategist View" column on the right side of the scorecard. Materials had 2 positive metrics but remains a strategist underweight. Utilities and financials continued to face headwinds, but the outlook for financials is more constructive, according to our strategist.

Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Sectors as defined by the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS); see appendix for additional information. YTD: year to date. On Sep. 24, 2018, changes were made to the GICS that are not reflected above (see below for more details on the changes). Scorecard will reflect the new framework next quarter. Time horizon view factors are based on historical analysis and are not a qualitative assessment by any individual investment professional. Green suggests outperformance; red suggests underperformance; unshaded portions indicate no clear pattern vs. the S&P 500. Strategist view is as of the date indicated, based on the information available at that time, and may change based on market or other conditions. This is not necessarily the opinion of Fidelity Investments or its affiliates. Fidelity does not assume any duty to update any of the information. Overweight and underweight views represent opportunistic tilts in a hypothetical sector portfolio relative to S&P 500 sector weights. Sector weightings may vary depending on an individual investor¡¯s risk tolerance and goals. Please see methodology below. Returns are for S&P 500 sector indexes. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. All indexes are unmanaged. Percentages may not total 100% due to rounding. Source: FactSet, Fidelity Investments, as of Sep. 21, 2018.

The fundamentals of the materials sector have continued to strengthen over the past 12 months, bolstered by solid EBITDA and EPS growth. Technology's fundamental strength remains broad-based, with solid free-cash-flow margin, EBITDA growth, and return on equity. Consumer discretionary has been supported by strong ROE. Conversely, the fundamental backdrops for the real estate, financials, and utilities sectors remain challenged.

The telecom and materials sectors appear inexpensive relative to other sectors, as their valuations are near the low end of their 10-year ranges. On the other hand, the technology, consumer discretionary, and industrials sectors are edging toward the high end of their 10-year valuation ranges.

Past performance is no guarantee of future results. On Sep. 24, 2018, changes were made to the GICS framework that are not reflected above (see below for more details on the changes.) Forward earnings yield reflects analysts¡¯ published earnings-per-share estimates for the next 12 months, divided by market price per share; it is the inverse of the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Free-cash-flow yield reflects free cash flow divided by market price per share; it is the inverse of the price-to-free-cash-flow ratio. The Financials and Real Estate sectors are not represented in the Free-Cash-Flow Yield chart. Please see the Glossary and Methodology below for further explanation. Source: FactSet, Fidelity Investments, as of Sep. 21, 2018.

Technology and consumer discretionary continued to lead the pack over the past 6 months. After a stellar third quarter, health care also rose into a leadership position. In contrast, the telecom, consumer staples, and financials sectors have lagged the broader market.

Analyst estimates of future corporate earnings tend to start high and decline over time as earnings announcements approach. But current estimates are rising, even through 2020, which has happened only 20% of the time since 1962 and has often led to above-average returns by the S&P 500 over the next 12 months. If earnings estimates are too low, as the trend suggests, forward valuations may be overstated¡ªa constructive signal for stocks.

As measured by free-cash-flow yield, cyclical sectors appear cheap relative to their defensive counterparts¡ªwhich has historically been an indication that cyclicals will outperform. This suggests that the leadership of cyclical sectors will persist, and that the market may have already discounted some current investor concerns about issues such as trade policy, political and geopolitical risks, and weakness in emerging market stocks.

Signs of crowding could be constructive for health care

The valuation spread between health care stocks in the top and bottom quartiles on a forward-earnings basis is wide relative to history. This suggests that investors are crowding into certain stocks they perceive to be less vulnerable to the policy concerns and margin pressures facing the sector. Such crowding has been a constructive signal for the health care sector historically, and suggests that these concerns may already be priced in.

Commodity spot prices have been in a secular decline relative to the S&P 500 price level. While commodity prices have risen recently, such price gains often fail to translate to the relative performance of the underlying equity sectors, such as energy and materials. This disconnect often stems from the relative valuations of the stocks themselves, and sectors like energy remain expensive compared to their long-term averages.

Sectors are shifting: The impact of the new GICS framework

MSCI and S&P Dow Jones announced changes to certain equity sectors as part of a revision of their Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS). To reflect recent market trends, including the broad integration of traditional telecom and media companies, the telecom sector was expanded to the "communication services" sector and includes certain stocks formerly classified within technology and consumer discretionary.

Tech margins, growth prospects may be lower after sector shift

With Internet companies shifting out of technology and into communication services, some investors are concerned about the outlook for the current technology sector. The sector's operating margins will be lower following the shift, and its expected earnings growth may also be reduced. But history suggests that these potential fundamental concerns may be offset by other signals that appear constructive for the sector.

The technology sector's relative valuations will also likely decline with the exclusion of Internet stocks. Lower valuations have historically led to higher odds of tech outperformance and thus may offset a lower growth outlook. Further, margin direction has been more important for tech than margin level. Because tech margins still appear to be in an expansionary trend and valuation support has strengthened, the sector's outlook remains constructive.