The 1 coin is to be replaced by a new model based on the old threepenny bit, George Osborne will announce in the Budget.

The Chancellor will say that the current coin, which has been in circulation for 30 years, is no longer suitable for use because it has become vulnerable to sophisticated counterfeiters.

The new 12-sided coin will be as secure as modern banknotes and will save taxpayers¡¯ money by cutting down on millions of pounds worth of fraud.

¡°After 30 years loyal service, the time is right to retire the current 1 coin, and replace it with the most secure coin in the world,¡± the Chancellor is expected to tell MPs.

The Royal Mint estimates that about 45m 1 coins in circulation are now forgeries.

The Government expects the new coin to be introduced in 2017.

As with all British coins, the Queen¡¯s effigy will be on the ¡°heads side¡±. However, there will now be a public competition to decide the design for the ¡°tails¡± side of the coin.

The Treasury said: ¡°With advances in technology making high value coins like the 1 ever more vulnerable to counterfeiters, it¡¯s vital that we keep several paces ahead of the criminals to maintain the integrity of our currency.

¡°We are particularly pleased that the coin will take a giant leap into the future, using cutting edge British technology while at the same time paying a fitting tribute to past in the 12-sided design of the iconic threepenny bit."

A source said that the new coin, which will be roughly the same size as the current 1, will still fit in supermarket trolleys, parking meters and vending machines.

The threepenny bit was in circulation from 1937 until decimalisation in 1971. It replaced the old silver threepence, known as a "Joey".

It was particularly popular during the Second World War, when its distinctive size and shape made it the easiest coin to recognise during blackouts.

By the time of decimalisation 1.2bn of the coins had been issued for circulation.

A Bank of England spokesman said: ¡°The Bank welcomes [the] news from the Treasury as another step forward in our collective efforts to maintain public confidence in the currency. Coins are the responsibility of the Royal Mint and together with the Bank¡¯s decision to produce polymer banknotes, this change will enhance the security and integrity of the currency.¡±

Kelvin Reynolds, director of policy and public affairs at the British Parking Association, said: ¡°Parking operators have long expressed concerns about a rise in counterfeit 1 coins and the inconvenience this causes to motorists when coins are rejected by parking payment machines and the losses incurred as a result.¡±