Herbalife is one of those multilevel marketing companies, often sketchy, that usually operate below the view of the national press. Bill Ackman is a hedge-fund billionaire who has placed a billion-dollar bet against its stock, arguing loudly that the company is a fraud, a pyramid scheme.

A New York Times investigation shows how Ackman has spread cash around to astroturf the issue. It¡¯s a case study in how vested interests pollute the news stream.

These are the larger forces playing out behind the scenes, dear readers, when you see stories like ¡°Latino Group Demands Herbalife Probe¡± from ABC News, as we did a month ago. Nowhere in that story did ABC report that the Latino group, the League of United Latin American Citizens had received $10,000 from Ackman early last year before it went on its crusade. The Times:

That¡¯s very interesting, because the Washington Post reported in November that LULAC hadn¡¯t taken money from Ackman. Or as the paper put it:

That¡¯s so narrowly worded that it¡¯s potentially accurate. But it¡¯s definitely misleading. A reader would think Ackman hadn¡¯t given LULAC money, when that was not the case at all. That¡¯s a miss by the Post.

Indeed, the Latino nonprofits involved in this mess come out looking pretty bad all around. Herbalife, for its part, has funneled cash to its own set of nonprofits, as the New York Post reported two weeks ago:

The NYT has a smoking gun on at least one nonprofit, the United States Hispanic Leadership Institute, which tried to get Ackman¡¯s people into a ¡°bidding war,¡± as the paper puts it, euphemistically, in my book:

Ackman and Herbalife have so poisoned the well by paying nonprofits and hiring key congressional staffers that it¡¯s hard to tell if anyone in this fight is untainted.

This is not to say that Ackman and/or the Latino advocacy groups don¡¯t have a legitimate case against Herbalife¡ªone that they truly believe in. The propriety of the multilevel marketing industry and of Herbalife in particular are serious issues.

But Ackman¡¯s machinations are so cynical and ham-handed that they¡¯ve backfired. As Bloomberg View¡¯s Jonathan Weil writes:

See, for example, the Federal Trade Commission, which, either despite or because of Ackman¡¯s lobbying, is probing Herbalife, the company announced today after the Financial Times contacted it about the investigation. Its stock plunged.

Having said all that, the Times¡¯s piece could have been better balanced. Surprisingly, it doesn¡¯t report that most of the ¡°Friends of Herbalife¡± letter¡¯s signers had taken Herbalife cash, as earlier reported by the Post. It notes only one, the National Puerto Rican Coalition. And it doesn¡¯t mention anything about the millions it has poured into UCLA, whose scientists have given it their imprimaturs, as the Los Angeles Times¡¯s Michael Hiltzik found last year.

More problematic, the Times doesn¡¯t mention that Herbalife spent seven times more money lobbying last year than Ackman did. Herbalife isn¡¯t even in the Fortune 500, but it ranked 290th in the country in lobbying last year after ramping up to fight Ackman.

To a certain extent, then, it looks like Ackman¡¯s trying to fight fire with fire. That doesn¡¯t excuse the astroturfing, of course, but it raises questions about why the Times, in a generally fine piece, didn¡¯t focus at least a little more on Herbalife¡¯s activities.