Avnet's commitment to integrity in business validated by ethical company award

--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- (NYSE:AVT), a leading global technology distributor, announced today that it has been recognized by the , an independent center of research promoting best practices in corporate ethics and governance, as a 2014 World's Most Ethical Company.

This is Avnet's first year being honored with this award, which recognizes organizations that continue to raise the bar on ethical leadership and corporate behavior. World's honorees understand the correlation between ethics, reputation and daily interactions with their brand and that the award belongs as much to their employees as it does to them. is one of only five companies in the electronics industry honored this year.

"As a global organization entrusted by the world's leading technology companies to service a broad base of customers around the world, ethics and integrity are core to Avnet's success," said Rick Hamada, chief executive officer of , Inc. "Integrity is not just included in Avnet's core values, it is our number one core value. This recognition from the validates what our employees around the world demonstrate every day¡ªthat integrity matters and is a critical part of what makes a truly premier global business partner, employer and industry leader."

continues to invest in many initiatives to enhance and expand its compliance, ethics, governance, sustainability, and community outreach programs. The company was recognized in part due to the effectiveness and influence of its compliance and ethics functions throughout the organization.

"We have one compliance standard for the company¡ªfull legal compliance and uncompromised business ethics," said , chief ethics and compliance officer, "Avnet's inclusion on the list of the World's Most Ethical Companies reflects our global team's commitment to ethical business practices around the world."

"The entire community of World's Most Ethical Companies believe that customers, employees, investors and regulators place a high premium on trust and that ethics and good governance are key in earning it," said Ethisphere's chief executive officer, . "Avnet joins an exclusive community committed to driving performance through leading business practices. We congratulate everyone at for this extraordinary achievement."

The World's assessment is based upon the Ethisphere Institute's Ethics Quotient framework. The Ethics Quotient framework has been developed over years of effort to provide a means to assess an organization's performance in an objective, consistent and standardized way. The information collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria of core competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance, risk, sustainability, compliance and ethics. The Ethics Quotient framework and methodology was determined, vetted and refined by the expert advice and insights gleaned from Ethisphere's network of thought leaders and from the World's .

Scores are generated in five key categories: ethics and compliance program (25%), reputation, leadership and innovation (20%), governance (10%), corporate citizenship and responsibility (25%) and culture of ethics (20%).

The full list of the 2014 World's Most Ethical Companies can be found at http://ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical/wme-honorees/.

Follow on Twitter: @ 

 Connect with on LinkedIn or Facebook: http://www.linkedin.com/company/2572 or facebook.com/avnetinc

 Read more about on our blogs: http://blogging.avnet.com/

The Ethisphere Institute is an independent center of research, best practices and thought leadership that promotes best practices in corporate ethics and governance and enables organizations to improve compliance, mitigate risk, and enhance relationships with employees, business partners, investors and the broad regulatory community. Ethisphere evaluates and benchmarks compliance and governance programs, honors superior achievement through its World's Most Ethical Companies recognition program and publishes . Ethisphere is also the leading provider of independent verification of corporate ethics and compliance programs that include: Ethics Inside Certification, Compliance Leader Verification and Anti-Corruption Program Verification. More information about Ethisphere can be found at: www.ethisphere.com.

(NYSE: AVT), a Fortune 500 company, is one of the largest distributors of electronic components, computer products and embedded technology serving customers globally. accelerates its partners' success by connecting the world's leading technology suppliers with a broad base of customers by providing cost-effective, value-added services and solutions. For the fiscal year ended , generated revenue of . For more information, visit www.avnet.com.

All company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.