As Prime Minister Stephen Harper landed in the Netherlands ahead of a visit to Ukraine to meet with the country＊s interim government this weekend, he announced a fresh expansion of sanctions against Russia.

Harper issued a statement Friday afternoon as he landed at The Hague announcing that Canada has imposed economic sanctions on 14 more Russian officials as well as Bank Rossiya, a St. Petersburg-based bank owned by supporters of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Travel bans have also been imposed on the 14 individuals.

※Together with our international allies, our government is taking a strong stance in our support for Ukraine. We continue to take additional actions to limit the capabilities of specific individuals and Bank Rossiya, which are responsible for undermining Ukraine＊s sovereignty,§ said Harper in the statement.

Friday＊s announcement brings the total number of Ukrainian and Russian officials sanctioned by Canada to 41. The officials have been sanctioned for their connection to the invasion of Crimea nearly three weeks ago and orchestration of Sunday＊s referendum that saw Crimeans vote for independence from Ukraine.

Bank Rossiya is the first financial institution to be sanctioned by Canada.

The punishments are part of Canada＊s efforts to isolate Putin and his government. In addition to economic sanctions and travel bans, Canada has also broken military ties with Russia.

Along with its G7 partners, Canada has refused to recognize last weekend＊s referendum in Crimea.

※The so-called referendum that was held has no legitimacy, and any additional escalations by Russia will lead to further isolation from the international community,§ said Harper in the statement.

On Friday, NDP Foreign Affairs critic Paul Dewar called on the government to suspend military sales to Russia, following a similar move by Germany earlier this week. It is not known whether the Conservative government is on side with this idea.

Harper is the first G7 leader to visit the eastern European country since pro-Russian troops invaded Crimea. He will meet with Interim Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk on Saturday. Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird will also accompany the prime minister.

Following his visit to Ukraine, Harper will return to The Hague for the Nuclear Security Summit and an emergency meeting between G7 leaders. He will complete his trip with a visit to Germany, where he will meet with Chancellor Angela Merkel to discuss a variety of bilateral issues.

The newly targeted individuals on Canada＊s sanctions list are as follows:

每 Sergei Ivanov, chief of staff to the presidential executive office;

每 Yuri Valentinovich Kovalchuk, largest single shareholder of Bank Rossiya and personal banker to senior officials;

每 Sergey Yevgenyevich Naryshkin, chairman of the government Duma of the federal gathering of the Russian Federation;

每 Mikhail Vitalevich Margelov, chairman of the federation council committee for foreign affairs;

每 Vitalii Nikitich Ignatenko, first deputy chairman of the federation council committee for foreign affairs;

每 Gennady Timchenko, one of the founders of the Gunvor, a major commodity trading company.

With files from Bloomberg and CP