As per the most up to date mortgage charts published by the US based mortgage lender, Capital One Financial Corp (NYSE: COF), on March 11, 2014, the interested customers can find the home purchase and refinancing mortgage home loans being traded at unchanged interest rates. This Tuesday, the bank chose to make no change to its benchmark 30 year fixed mortgage interest rates, which are still hanging around the same spot as yesterday.

Starting off with the standard, long term offerings of Capital One Financial, the 30 year fixed rate mortgage loans are now published against a lending charge of 4.375% and are carrying an annual percentage rate of 4.378% today. However, the relatively shorter, 15 year fixed rate mortgage home loan deals are now being traded at an interest rate of 3.500% and an annual return rate of 3.506%.

For the potential home buyers, who are seeking monetary assistance from Capital One Financial for dealing with their expensive home investment, the is offering jumbo versions of its best 30 year fixed rate mortgage options at an interest rate of 4.500% and an APR yield of 4.501%,which is certainly higher than the conventional home loan deals. On the other hand, the mortgage shoppers, who are keen on taking the shorter road to home financing, can opt for the 15 year jumbo fixed rate home loan plans, which have now been tagged with an interest cost of 3.875% and are backed by annual percentage yield of 3.877% today.

The mortgage shoppers, who are looking forward to secure ideal home loans at flexible interest rates, can end their search at the adjustable rate mortgage section of Capital One Financial. This Tuesday, the bank is offering its best 5 year adjustable rate mortgage loans are at a starting lending rate of 3.000% and an APR yield of 2.839%. However, the more flexible, 7 year adjustable rate home loans are up for grabs at a starting interest price of 3.375% and an APR yield of 3.041% on the initial amount of the loan sanctioned by the bank.

The mortgage home loan rates quoted by banks often fluctuate depending upon the sudden changes in the rates of mortgage backed bonds and securities, which generally move along with the stock market movements. As the Wall Street plummeted close to the end of the trading day and left the DJIA index at 15337.70, after a fall of -113.35, the bank moved in the same direction for publishing its interest rates. Irrespective of the mortgage rates, the stock price of COF shares moved to a higher spot of 67.60 after spike of +0.59 today.

Disclaimer: The advertised rates were submitted by each individual lender/broker on the date indicated. Rate/APR terms offered by advertisers may differ from those listed above based on the creditworthiness of the borrower and other differences between an individual loan and the loan criteria used for the quotes.