Interest rates on mortgage loans remained mostly unchanged at U.S. lender, Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) on Wednesday, March 12. Under the lender¡¯s home loan portfolio, the 30-year fixed loan is quoted at a rate of 4.250%. Moving on to the shorter-term, 15-year fixed mortgage, it¡¯s currently published at a rate of 3.250% at this lender. Borrowers, who are looking to obtain more flexible loans tha fixed conventional mortgages, may be interested to learn that the 7/1 ARM is available today at a rate of 3.125%. The 5-year ARM is another possible solution, as it can be had at 2.750%.

Heading over to current mortgage refinance rates, the benchmark 30-year FRM is quoted at a rate of 4.375%, the same rate it¡¯s been holding since the beginning of the week. The popular 15-year fixed refinance loan is also holding steady at BofA. The current mortgage rate on this loan is 3.375%. No changes were made to Bank of America¡¯s ARMs either. According to the latest data from the Charlotte-headquartered mortgage provider, the 7/1 ARM is published at a rate of 3.250% on Wednesday. Switching to the 5-year adjustable rate loan, which can be used for refinancing, it¡¯s coming out at 2.875%. Additional information on BofA¡¯s home purchase and refinance mortgage rates, as well as details on discount points and APRs can be found below.

Bank of America, one of the country¡¯s largest mortgage provider, offers excellent interest rates under both its home purchase and refinance mortgage programs, so those who are looking to invest either in a new / used home or to refinance an existing mortgage, may find some ideal loans at this lender.

Please, bear in mind, that the present mortgage interest rates may vary without prior notice from the lender and are subject to change based on location, geography and other terms and conditions. The annual percentage rates (APR) were made based on discount points, origination fees, average loan fees and closing costs.

 Compare Today¡¯s Mortgage Rates and Find The Best Loans

In other mortgage-related news, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) released the results of its weekly survey on Wednesday. According to the latest data, the Market Composite Index, which measures overall mortgage activity, dropped 2.1% on a seasonally adjusted basis in the week ended March 7. Loan applications for mortgage refinancing dipped 3%, according to the MBA¡¯s survey. The Purchase Index, on the other hand, edged down 1% compared to the previous week¡¯s data. The refinance share of total mortgage applications fell to 57% from the previous 58%, the MBA said.

The average contract interest rate on the 30-year fixed mortgage moved down to 4.47% from the previous 4.53% that it carried before. As far as the 15-year FRM is concerned, the average rate slipped to 3.52% from the previous 3.56%, the MBA noted.

Virginia-based mortgage-buyer, Freddie Mac reported last week that the average rate on the 30-year fixed loan improved to 4.28%. This is a lower interest rate compared to the previous 4.37% that it carried a week earlier. On the other hand, the average rate on the shorter-term 15-year fixed mortgage ticked down to 3.32% last week. With regards to the 5-year Treasury-indexed hybrid adjustable rate loan, it decreased a few basis points and now it stands at 3.03%. The 1-year ARM remained unchanged last week, as it¡¯s still hovering at 2.52%, according to Freddie Mac¡¯s survey.

For more details on the latest home purchase and refinance mortgage interest rates at Bank of America, as well as details on borrowing terms and conditions and loan assumptions, please take a look at the bank¡¯s website.