Just in time for March Madness, Obamacare¡¯s getting its game on.

The administration said 5 million people have signed up for coverage with two weeks to go until the March 31 deadline,. The surging pace could revive White House hopes of enrolling 6 million by the end of the month.

Lukewarm progress in February ¡ª when fewer than a million people enrolled, and 6 million seemed like wishful thinking ¡ª suggested that the administration could fall short of expectations that had already been lowered following the HealthCare.gov debacle in the fall. Now the question is whether the momentum will be sustained amid a full-court press by the White House, advocates and, now, basketball stars.

¡°The last several days have been the busiest since December, with the Call Center taking more than 198,000 calls on Thursday alone ¡ª the busiest day since December 23 ¡ª and more than 130,000 calls over the weekend,¡± Marilyn Tavenner, head of the federal agency overseeing Obamacare implementation, said in a blog post Monday. ¡°Last week, HealthCare.gov saw more than 4 million visits ¡ª and an additional 1 million visits this weekend.¡±

Late December saw a surge because it was the deadline for getting covered on Jan. 1. Administration officials have long argued that they expected enrollment to skyrocket again this month, when procrastinators run up against the deadline. Ad blitzes and media appearances by the administration have targeted moms, basketball fans, Latinos and young adults. This weekend, the administration will try to mobilize people of faith to enroll and encourage fellow congregants to check out HealthCare.gov.

Sign-ups are now at a pace that ¡ª if sustained ¡ª puts the administration on the cusp of 6 million, which even some Obamacare allies had been skeptical about reaching. That target was revised downward from 7 million after the failed rollout of HealthCare.gov in the fall.

¡°So far, things are moving pretty well after getting off to a slow start with the website,¡± Vice President Joe Biden told a group of advocates who help people enroll as he met with them at a diner in Pennsylvania Monday.

The numbers released Monday don¡¯t indicate how many of the sign-ups are newly insured or have started paying premiums, the final step to getting coverage. And the administration didn¡¯t give any new details about the ages of enrollees, how many are the demographically desirable ¡°young invincibles.¡±

But 5 million is a psychological milestone. And those sign-ups in federal and state exchanges don¡¯t count several million people who have enrolled in Medicaid, which is being expanded in about half the states under the health law.

About 1 in 5 of the sign-ups nationwide have been in California¡¯s exchange, Covered California, which just announced it crossed 1 million customers.

¡°This is a historic threshold for our exchange, for the state of California and for the nation,¡± said Peter Lee, executive director of Covered California, said in a statement. ¡°It speaks to the immense need for the Affordable Care Act and the millions of people who have been waiting for affordable coverage.¡±

The news comes just a few days after the Obama administration announced that 940,000 people had signed up for coverage in February, and 4.2 million people overall in the first five months of enrollment. That was a solid figure considering the fall¡¯s tech woes but not the breakthrough the administration had wanted.

Those numbers set the stage for the all-out PR blitz by senior White House officials, advocacy groups and high-profile allies, with messaging and media aimed at women, young adults, Latinos and, now, March Madness basketball fans. The administration even released its own bracket as part of its ¡°16 Sweetest Reasons to Get Covered,¡± in keeping with the basketball theme. And President Barack Obama¡¯s recent segment on the ¡°Between Two Ferns¡± web comedy also created a lot of buzz.

But opponents of the effort are also mobilizing ¡ª for now and November. Americans for Prosperity announced earlier in the day that it had purchase about $1.7 million in TV air time to run ads against vulnerable Democratic Sens. Mary Landrieu and Mark Udall.