Health and Human Service Secretary Kathleen Sebelius tried to downplay the expected rise in health insurance premiums last week, telling a House committee that premiums would ¡±go up at a smaller pace than what we¡¯ve seen since 2010.¡±

Those comments are already questionable. Obamacare caused the average individual health plan premium to increase by 39% between 2013 and 2014 and the average family plan to increase by 56%, according to data provided last month by eHealthInsurance.com.

These increases surpass the average of the previous eight years combined, a consequence of the law¡¯s actuarial requirements, taxes and fees, as well as the mandated essential benefits.

For their part, insurers are disputing Sebelius¡¯ claim, The Hill reports. They¡¯re expecting premiums to rise sharply in some areas of the country, perhaps double or triple, which is partially blamed on the botched rollout of the federal Obamacare exchange:

Health industry officials say ObamaCare-related premiums will double in some parts of the country, countering claims recently made by the administration.

[¡­]

¡°It¡¯s pretty shortsighted because I think everybody knows that the way the exchange has rolled out ¡­ is going to lead to higher costs,¡± said one senior insurance executive who requested anonymity. The insurance official, who hails from a populous swing state, said his company expects to triple its rates next year on the ObamaCare exchange. The hikes are expected to vary substantially by region, state and carrier. Areas of the country with older, sicker or smaller populations are likely to be hit hardest, while others might not see substantial increases at all.

[¡­]

¡°My gut tells me that, for some people, these increases will be significant,¡± said Bill Hoagland, a former executive at Cigna and current senior vice president at the Bipartisan Policy Center. Hoagland said Sebelius was seeking to ¡°soften up the American public¡± to the likelihood that premiums will rise, despite promises to the contrary.

Insurers are also pointing out that the age demographics are unbalanced, which will also contribute to the rise in insurance premiums, though that¡¯s something that will be determine on a state-by-state bases, since they determine factor expected costs through the lens of individual state exchanges, not one big risk pool.

There are a couple things to consider after reading this report. First, the ripple effects in the insurance market. Assuming that premium increases do double or triple in some areas of the country, that would likely depress enrollment numbers for the 2015 open enrollment period. Insurers would, once again, readjust with higher premiums. At that point, we¡¯re looking at a death spiral.

Though some have argued that bailout provisions would prevent a death spiral scenario in the transitional period, the fact that insurers are openly warning about very significant premium increases should speak volumes.

Remember, the individual mandate has been effectively gutted for two years. Anyone who doesn¡¯t want to buy insurance could claim a loosely defined ¡°hardship exemption¡± to avoid any tax penalties.

The other point is the electoral ramifications. Insurers will begin submitting their rates for 2015 in the next two or three months, which state insurance commissioners will have to approve. Though the next open enrollment period has been delayed until after the mid-term election, there will be countless stories about expected premium increases.

Those premium increases will receive a lot of attention in states where there are competitive House and Senate races, and that only serves to bolster Republicans¡¯ chances of taking the upper chamber.