The latest Airbnb horror story ¡ª a New York man returns to home to find his posh pad trashed during a raunchy sex party ¡ª hasn¡¯t turned off investors.

Despite the orgy ordeal that forced a comedian to vacate his Chelsea apartment, Airbnb is in talks raise money that would value the apartment rental service at an eye-popping $10 billion.

Airbnb, which counts actor Ashton Kutcher as an early backer, is in talks to raise between $400 million and $500 million from a group of investors that will likely be led by private-equity firm TPG, a person with knowledge of the situation told The Post.

At the $10 billion valuation, the San Francisco startup would be worth more than established hotel chains including Hyatt Hotels and Wyndham Worldwide, valued at $8.45 billion and $9.3 billion, respectively.

The talks are in the advanced stages, according to the Wall Street Journal, which first reported the news.

Before this latest funding round, Airbnb was valued at $2.5 billion based on $326 million from financial backers, including venture capital firms Andreessen Horowitz and Founder¡¯s Fund.

Kutcher, Demi Moore¡¯s ex, was named an Airbnb ¡°strategic adviser¡° after he invested in the venture in 2011.

Earlier this week, Airbnb found itself in a hot mess when Ari Teman discovered that his apartment, which had he had listed on Airbnb, had hosted a wild sex party advertised on Twitter as a ¡°XXX FREAK FEST.¡±

Teman thought he was renting the pad to someone who was going to use it to host some wedding guests.

Airbnb has since put Teman up in a hotel and banned the party planner from its website. It is also discussing reimbursing him for the damage to his home.

¡°Airbnb has been responsive, and we are still in talks,¡± Teman told The Post about the bizarre episode, which he said left his furniture unusable and his clothes mysteriously damp.

Aside from the raunchy party, Airbnb is being probed by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman over a state law that forbids people from renting their homes for fewer than 30 days unless the owner is also present.

The AG is also concerned that some Airbnb hosts are avoiding a 14.75 percent state occupancy tax.

Schneiderman has asked for data on as many as 225,000 New Yorkers who have rented out rooms through Airbnb since 2010. The company has been fighting the data request, arguing it invades its users¡¯ privacy.