The big business news yesterday was the SEC filing of King Digital Entertainment, the parent company of the mobile game Candy Crush Saga. The Irish firm said it could be valued as high as $7.6 billion at its IPO. FORBES reporters touched on the topic:

"King wants those billions of games played to translate to billions of dollars in its upcoming initial public offering . But with a litter of once-hot (but now, not) apps in its wake, the biggest question that remains is not if King Digital can reach its $7.6 billion target, but whether it can avoid the fate of Zynga, the mobile gaming company whose Farmville is among those apps that have faded from public memory and whose shares have fallen more than 40% since its IPO in 2011" -- Maggie McGrath. Read Candy Crush Maker Seeks $7.6B Valuation, Must Prove It's Not One-Hit-Wonder

"The prevailing skepticism about tech IPOs is that frothy valuations sans profits are contributing to a bubble. Yet King Digital Entertainment, maker of the highly addictive game Candy Crush Saga is one of the few big mobile companies posting hefty revenues and profits ahead of its own IPO" -- Parmy Olson. Read Candy Crusher Maker King Sets IPO Valuation As High As $7.6 Billion

Additionally, a deadly explosion occurred in East Harlem. FORBES reporter Alex Morrell was on the scene and wrote a firsthand account of the incident.

"Whether they¡¯re starting out, raising capital or heading billion-dollar businesses, women are growing companies at a rate one-and-a-half times the national average. And while they still face the same challenges as always ¡ª access to capital and a challenging economy, among others ¡ª a study released today from the National Association of Women Business Owners (NAWBO) and Web.com shows they¡¯re more optimistic than ever" -- Emily Inverso. Read Why Women Entrepreneurs Are More Optimistic Than Ever

"Today, based on new signup numbers from February, Avalere has some slightly bad news for fans of the law, properly known as the Affordable Care Act: right now it projects enrollment will reach just 5.4 million by the end of the open enrollment period this month, which is at the bottom end of what insurance industry analysts on Wall Street were hoping for if the new market created by Obamacare is going to be a boon, not a drag, for insurance companies like Humana , Cigna and Aetna" -- Matthew Herper. Read Bad News For Obamacare: Enrollment Is Trending Below Forecasts

"Imagine this happy occasion. On his girlfriend¡¯s birthday a man announces he has a special gift, a sleek new Android phone. Unbeknownst to the woman however, from that moment on the phone records everything that happens on the device and sends the details to a remote website. Every call is recorded, every keystroke logged, every email seen, every SMS chat or photograph monitored. Whenever the boyfriend wants, he logs online and reviews the trove of information" -- Adam Tanner. Read Starting Today, Jealous Lovers Can Buy NSA-Like Monitoring Powers

"This year¡¯s first day of free agency lacked a bit of excitement because some of the biggest names were off the board before the clock even started. But there was still plenty of action and, though it¡¯s far too early to know exactly how each team did, there are clearly some teams that ended the first day of free agency looking much better than others" -- Chris Smith. Read Winners And Losers Of NFL Free Agency Day One

Whether you¡¯re looking to land your first job or change your career, Find and Keep Your Dream Job: The Definitive Careers Guide From Forbes will help you hone your interview skills, find new leads and sharpen the tools you need to land¡ªand hold on to¡ªyour dream job.

Some of Forbes¡¯ best careers and leadership writers have compiled this guide to encompass every aspect of the job hunt: from using informational interviews to discover unlisted positions to making yourself indispensable at work. With the advice found in this guide, the job you've always wanted will soon be yours. Buy it now on Vook, iTunes or Amazon.