¡°I think it¡¯s really important when you¡¯re starting a business to create good quality relationships. You want to find someone who has experienced starting a business,¡± says Debra Horn, Senior ¡­

¡°We started doing this long-distance. We were in Denver when we were first getting the project up and running,¡± says Jennifer Leonard, Head Brewer at Tie and Timber Beer Company. Leonard says ¡­

¡°A good leader has to be able to listen before they can make change or make decisions,¡± says Jessica Kruse, Associate Circuit Judge, Division 3 in Christian County. Kruse says when she joins an ¡­

¡°You always want to do more and there¡¯s only so many hours in the day,¡± says Rachel Anderson, Director of the efactory. Time management can be tricky when you have many irons in the fire. ¡­

Best Advice - Build it on Your Own President of Croley Insurance and Financial, did a lot of ¡°grunt work¡± at his first job. Croley says his boss told him he could stay in his position, but at some point he should build his own ¡­

David Brazeal says to protect yourself from online data breaches, it¡¯s critical to have long, secure passwords. The trouble is remembering them. That¡¯s why Brazeal uses a password ¡­

¡°For me, and for anybody that works with me, I want passion. You¡¯ve got to love what you¡¯re doing, but you¡¯ve also gotta find that balance too, between family and work,¡± says Rob Haik, ¡­

The best leaders display qualities like vision and having their employees back, says Shawn Usery, Chief Medical Officer at Cox Medical Center Branson. ¡°I think some of the best leaders I work for ¡­

Booked - The Five Dysfunctions of a Team Andrea Sitzes, Executive Director of Show Me Christian County Economic Development says previous work experience exposed her to ¡°The Five Disfunctions of a Team¡± by Patrick Lencioni. She says the ¡­

¡°They¡¯re some of our best workers, candidly. They come in, they understand what it means to get work done,¡± says Thomas H. Douglas, CEO of JMark Business Solutions. Douglas says he likes to ¡­