With the all-new Mercedes-Benz C-Class Mercedes-Benz is defining new benchmarks in the premium medium-size category. A sensuous, clear design, a sporty interior with high-class appeal and a generous sense of space, the lightest body shell in the segment, economical and lively engines, efficiency benchmarks, extensive safety features, a new agile and comfortable suspension as well as a host of other innovations create the impression of an upgrade to a higher class of vehicle.

The new Mercedes-Benz C-Class has a sensuous and clear design and offers a host of technical innovations as well as a comprehensive scope of standard equipment, and exemplary emissions and fuel consumption figures. This all adds up to substantial added value and long-term savings on motor vehicle tax and at the filling station.

Production of the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class starts in four locations and on four continents within the span of four months: in Bremen (Germany), East London (South Africa), Beijing (China) and for the first time also in Tuscaloosa (Alabama, USA).

The new Mercedes-Benz C-Class offers new dimensions with regard to technology, ecology, comfort, high-class appeal and fun at the wheel 每 and equally regarding the sense of space. The Mercedes-Benz C-Class has grown to take account of people＊s increasing average height. With an 80-millimetre increase in the wheelbase (2840 millimetres) compared with the previous model, the vehicle is 95 millimetres longer (4686 millimetres) and 40 millimetres wider (1810 millimetres). The resulting increase in space benefits the rear-seat passengers, who now travel in even more comfort, and creates room for the new front axle and future hybrid components. At 480 litres the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class also surpasses its predecessor in terms of boot capacity (in accordance with ISO 3832).

In some measurements the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class even approaches or surpasses the EClass model series that made design history in 1995 with its distinctive four-headlamp look. Wheelbase, track and width are actually larger while many interior dimensions are on about the same level. This growth spurt benefits first and foremost comfort. What is more, the bare figures substantiate that the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class Saloon also provides the measurable and not purely subjective benefits of an ※upgrade to a higher class of vehicle§ thanks to high-quality appointments and innovative technology.

The new Mercedes-Benz C-Class sets visual highlights with a striking, dynamic design that exudes sensuous clarity while arousing emotions at the same time. Customers can choose from two fronts 每 sporty with a central star or 每 reserved solely for the EXCLUSIVE line 每 the classic Saloon grille with the Mercedes star on the bonnet, which puts particular emphasis on the status and reputation of the Saloon. The interior spaciously and stylishly showcases straightforward sportiness and aesthetic elegance with high-quality materials and finely crafted details worthy of the luxury class with surprising new design ideas. In addition to the base model, there are also three distinct design and equipment lines each for the exterior and interior.

With regard to technical features the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class surpasses its successful predecessor in many areas and sets a multitude of new benchmarks in its segment besides. With an aluminium content of 48 percent and up to 100 kilograms lighter the Saloon is the lightweight-design leader in its segment. Other benchmarks: 99 grammes of CO2 emissions for the C 180 BlueTEC and the C 200 BlueTEC (preliminary figures); for the C 300 BlueTEC HYBRID 94 grammes of CO2 emissions as well as a Cd value of 0.24.

Among the outstanding characteristics of the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class are also the best ride comfort 每 especially with first-ever AIRMATIC air suspension in this segment 每 the best NVH figures (noise, vibration, harshness) for comfort and driver-fitness safety, the best wind noise index, the most advanced and extensive assistance systems, innovative technology with multifunctional touchpad, head-up display, and GPS-controlled climate comfort. The outstanding safety substantiates the high standards which Mercedes-Benz as a safety pioneer also satisfies in the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class 每 it not only garners benchmarks in all national ratings around the world, but also meets the even more demanding Mercedes in-house requirements, which even more precisely reflect what actually happens in real-life accidents.

Mercedes-Benz C-Class customers will have a choice of three versions of the standard-specification steel suspension, which also includes a very sporty set-up. As an alternative Mercedes-Benz for the first time offers an air suspension in this segment. The AIRMATIC air suspension manages to bridge the gap between a high level of ride comfort and dynamic-agile handling.

Powerful and efficient petrol and diesel engines, all equipped with the ECO start/stop function and complying with Euro 6 emissions standards, provide for lively performance and great fun at the wheel. They are also a factor in cutting fuel consumption by up to 20 percent compared with the preceding model. Among them is also a new small four-cylinder diesel engine with a displacement of 1.6 litres. Low weight, compact design and low specific fuel consumption are among its special merits.

Five four-cylinder petrol engines with power outputs ranging from 115 to 180 kW (156 to 245 hp) will initially be available for the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class. There is also the C 180 BlueEFFICIENCY Edition special model, which with ECO Technology package qualifies for efficiency class A. A six-cylinder petrol engine rated at 245 kW (333 hp) and the four-cylinder C 350 HYBRID with plug-in technology and a power output of 150 + 20 kW (204 + 27 hp) will follow in due course.

The diesel models of the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class are powered by the further enhanced four-cylinder or the new small four-cylinder engine, which as BlueTEC models are all equipped with SCR technology (selective catalytic reduction). They cover an output range from 85 kW (115 hp) to 150 kW (204 hp). The C 220 BlueTEC is optionally also available with an output of 120 kW (163 hp) as a special model with ECO Technology package.

In addition, Mercedes-Benz offers a diesel engine combined with a hybrid module. The C 300 BlueTEC HYBRID with four-cylinder diesel engine and compact electric motor generates an output of 150 + 20 kW (204 + 27 hp) and despite its high power output runs on just 3.6 litres of diesel per 100 km/h in NEDC combined mode (equivalent to 94 grammes of CO2).

As is customary, the new Mercedes-Benz C-Class will also be available with a modern 4MATIC all-wheel-drive system starting in September 2014.

All diesel-powered Mercedes-Benz C-Class models are classified at least as efficiency class A, most of them even as efficiency class A+. The only exceptions are the 4MATIC models C 220 BlueTEC 4MATIC and C 250 BlueTEC 4MATIC, which are classified as efficiency class B.