For a eurosceptic government to turn the pound coin into something that looks like a euro is, frankly, a little bit bizarre.

News of this new pound coin is far more important to ordinary people than the austerity-limited tweaks to the tax system contained in today¡¯s Budget.

¡®After 30 years¡¯ loyal service, the time is right to retire the current 1 coin,¡¯ declares George Osborne.

The chancellor may have succumbed to Treasury madness. It¡¯s just a coin, not a civil servant. We must pay close attention to make sure all the old 1 coins are not given pensions.

The old circular British pound is now to be replaced by something that looks like the brainchild of a mad scientist cross-breeding a 50p and a euro. It¡¯s a jagged two-tone affair which will be virtually impossible to roll away when you drop it on the floor in the pub. Where¡¯s the fun in that?

MORE: Thrupenny bit remake edges out old 1 coin

Such an important decision isn¡¯t being taken lightly. It¡¯s actually a deliberate ploy by the Conservatives to try and appeal to Ukip-voting traditionalists. Or, as Osborne says in the press release issued by the Royal Mint:

Personally I have no idea what the threepenny bit looks like. Nor, in all likelihood, does anyone who¡¯s reading this on a smartphone.

But we¡¯re not the target audience for this particular bit of politicking, are we? The Tories are desperate to win over the wrinkly vote and, as this demonstrates, are prepared to try anything to make more youthfully-challenged voters feel good.

So let¡¯s hope, for Osborne¡¯s sake, that the coin doesn¡¯t get mixed up with the euro.

The fuss surrounding this new design calls into question the unveiling of the London 2012 logo. That was panned for being stupid. But we all got used to it and in the end we realised how clever and cool it was.

Something tells me the designers of this new pound won¡¯t be quite as forward-looking as those who worked on the Olympics, however.

MORE: These people really don¡¯t like the new pound coin

The ¡®tails¡¯ of the coin is also up for grabs. The design for the reverse is obviously going to be critical and will be the subject of a consultation.

Perhaps if enough people asked for it we could get a cup of tea on the back of the coin? Or Big Ben? Or, dare I say it, a Star Wars light-sabre fight?