SYDNEY: Shanghai copper dropped by its 5 percent daily limit on Monday to its lowest in more than four years after weak Chinese trade data fanned concerns over its metals industry following the country's first domestic bond default last week.

China's exports unexpectedly tumbled in February, swinging the trade balance into deficit and adding to fears of a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy despite the Lunar New Year holidays being blamed for the slide.

This inflamed worries about appetite, as demand from Chinese consumers has yet to regain steam after the new year break. London copper prices slid to within a whisker of nearly three-year lows, after shedding nearly 4 percent on Friday.

¡°Fundamental demand has not resumed to normal levels yet,¡± said analyst Chunlan Li of minerals consultancy CRU in Beijing.

¡°We are still waiting to see demand resume, maybe after mid-March ¡ª there's still a chance it will happen.¡±

The most-traded May copper contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell 5 percent to 46,670 yuan ($7,600) a tonne, its lowest since Sept. 2009.

Across the board, heavy selling in Shanghai metals contracts spilled into the new week, with ShFE aluminium hitting a 5-year low, ShFE lead a contract low and ShFE zinc sliding to its weakest in more than four months.

Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange had dropped 1.1 percent to $6,709.25 a tonne by 0256 GMT.

It earlier slid as far as $6,608 a tonne, its weakest since June 25, when it stopped at $6,602, the lowest since July 2010.

But other LME contracts, many with stronger fundamentals than copper this year, held their ground, slipping to multi-week rather than multi-month or year lows.

Reflecting ample supply, copper premiums in Shanghai bond have fallen by $20 to $140-$160 from late January, according to China price provider Shmet.

China is the world's top user of copper, accounting for 45 percent of global demand. But much of its imports are used for financing, where shipments are sold on domestic markets to raise funds for investment in higher yielding assets like real estate.

Worries these deals could unravel flustered traders on Friday after China recorded its first domestic bond default when loss-making solar equipment producer Chaori Solar missed an interest payment, setting a landmark for market discipline in the world's second-largest economy.

The default is widely expected to force a re-pricing of credit risk that could pile pressure on weak borrowers.

Industries such as metals and mining, shipbuilding and materials are seen as key sectors with high default risks.

Li said that there was a substantial risk that sliding property market values or spreading debt market contagion could force copper financing deals to unravel.

¡°But I think it's not this year. The government is still expecting a stable slowdown, not a sharp slowdown ¨C clearly real estate is heavily relevant to economic growth.¡±

Elsewhere, US job growth accelerated sharply in February despite the icy weather that gripped much of the nation, easing fears of an abrupt economic slowdown and keeping the Federal Reserve on track to continue reducing its monetary stimulus.

Hedge funds and money managers turned copper markets into a net short in the week to March 4, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Friday.

Also curtailing risk appetite, were worries about escalating tensions in Ukraine. Germany's Angela Merkel delivered a rebuke to President Vladimir Putin on Sunday, telling him that a planned Moscow-backed referendum on whether Crimea should join Russia was illegal and violated Ukraine's constitution.