Video gamers will be able to trade their old games for store credit at Walmart under a program announced Monday by company executives.

Walmart and Sam's Club will start accepting used video games March 26 at 3,100 stores nationwide, and the refurbished games should be available this summer, said Duncan MacNaughton, Walmart's chief merchandising and marketing officer.

The retailer, based in Bentonville, Ark., is hoping to attract some of the nation's 110 million gamers, grab a share of the $2 billion used-video-game market and compete with industry leader GameStop for customers.

"When we disrupt markets and compete, our customers win," MacNaughton said. "They'll save money on video games and have the flexibility to spend it however they want."

Walmart launched trade-in programs for smartphones and tablet computers last fall, paying customers $50 to $300 for used phones and up to $300 for tablets.

The company experimented with a used-game program in 2009 but was unable to find the right model for its customers and stores, executives said.

Under the new program, gamers can bring in used video games that still work in the original packaging to the electronics department. The games will be checked for any damage and scanned using the bar code.

Customers then will be offered a trade-in value for store credit of up to $35 that can be spent immediately on new video-game consoles, new or used games or any item in Walmart or Sam's Club.

Thousands of video games for popular consoles from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo will be accepted.

The trade-in program should help customers to barter games they no longer use for new games or to buy the latest gaming consoles, MacNaughton said.

Walmart spokeswoman Sarah McKinney said there are an estimated 800 million games that are no longer used in gamers' collections.

MacNaughton said Walmart intends to pay more for used videos and sell them for less than its competitors.

GameStop Corp., based in Grapevine, Texas, is one of the largest video-game retailers, with 6,650 stores in 15 countries.

It reported $8.89 billion in revenue for fiscal 2012.