Working video games in their original packaging can be exchanged by customers for in-store credit. These eGift cards can be used at Walmart and Sam's Club locations. This credit can also be used on purchases made through the retailers' respective websites. 



 Walmart mention that thousands of games are eligible for the program. The 



 The retailer dipped their toe in used game sales back in 2009 with 



 



 "Gaming continues to be an important business for us and we¡¯re actively taking aim at the $2 billion pre-owned video game opportunity,¡± said Duncan Mac Naughton, chief merchandising and marketing officer for Walmart U.S., today. "When we disrupt markets and compete, our customer wins. They¡¯ll save money on video games and have the flexibility to spend it however they want." 



 



 The second phase of Walmart's plan will begin later this year when they start selling used games. These "Certified Pre-Owned" games will be available through Walmart.com as well as stores. 



 Walmart customers are currently able to trade in smartphones and tablets toward the purchase of a new device in stores or online. Walmart.com also allows you to trade in game consoles, laptops and other electronics. 



 Walmart will allow customers to trade in their used video games starting on March 26th at the retailer's 3,100 locations in the United States. The retailer is accepting trade-ins online starting today.Working video games in their original packaging can be exchanged by customers for in-store credit. These eGift cards can be used at Walmart and Sam's Club locations. This credit can also be used on purchases made through the retailers' respective websites.Walmart mention that thousands of games are eligible for the program. The website for trade-ins lists every current-gen and next-gen platform from Nintendo Sony and Microsoft . The site also lets you browse the trade values for several recent releases.The retailer dipped their toe in used game sales back in 2009 with special trade-in kiosks . They discontinued that program within a year, though apparently never lost their appetite for the pre-owned market. It's no surprise, given the size of that market. In a new infographic trailer, the company states that there are nearly a billion games collecting dust in American homes."Gaming continues to be an important business for us and we¡¯re actively taking aim at the $2 billion pre-owned video game opportunity,¡± said Duncan Mac Naughton, chief merchandising and marketing officer for Walmart U.S., today. "When we disrupt markets and compete, our customer wins. They¡¯ll save money on video games and have the flexibility to spend it however they want." GameStop has made a tidy profit over the years through buying used games and then selling them at a marked-up price. Walmart's entry into the market should make things interesting for customers. It's possible we could see better trade-in values for used games as the two retailers compete for gamers' business.The second phase of Walmart's plan will begin later this year when they start selling used games. These "Certified Pre-Owned" games will be available through Walmart.com as well as stores.Walmart customers are currently able to trade in smartphones and tablets toward the purchase of a new device in stores or online. Walmart.com also allows you to trade in game consoles, laptops and other electronics. Blended From Around The Web