Libya stopped a North Korean-flagged tanker that had loaded oil from a rebel-held port, after naval forces briefly exchanged fire with the rebels, a government spokesman says.



Full Story:



Libya on Monday (March 10) stopped a North Korean-flagged tanker that had loaded oil from a rebel-held port, after naval forces briefly exchanged fire with the rebels, a government spokesman said.



But rebel leader Ibrahim Jathran denied in a televised statement broadcast from a ship that he had lost control of the oil tanker.



Culture minister and government spokesman Habib al Amin said the authorities were in control of the vessel.



"The authorities, until this moment, are very clearly in control of the tanker, and the tanker is safe and fully protected by the Libyan naval forces, no one from the other side can come close to it," Amin told a news conference.



The minister said the tanker was halted after an exchange of fire.



"They tried two hours ago to start clashes and fire towards our naval forces, we responded to this and they stopped. The ship is now completely secured by the navy, and we expect at any moment that it will be able to leave," Amin said.



The conflict over oil wealth is increasing fears that the OPEC producer may slide deeper into chaos or even splinter as the fragile government fails to rein in dozens of militias that helped oust Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 but now defy state authority.



The rebels, who have seized three ports and partly control a fourth, said they had dispatched forces to central Libya to deal with any government attack.



Libyan officials said the government will assemble forces to "liberate" all occupied ports, raising the stakes over a blockage that has cut off vital oil revenue.



The rebels, made up of former oil security guards, said they had sent forces by land and sea to central Libya to confront any government attackers.



For more news and videos visit  http://ntd.tv

Follow us on Twitter  http://twitter.com/NTDTelevision

Add us on Facebook  http://on.fb.me/s5KV2C