Security software company Symantec fired its CEO Steve Bennett and named a director, Michael Brown, as its interim president and CEO, the company announced on Thursday.

A search for a replacement is under way, it said.

¡°This considered decision was the result of an ongoing deliberative process, and not precipitated by any event or impropriety,¡± Symantec chairman Daniel Schulman said in a prepared statement.

Symantec shares fell by nearly nine percent in after-hours trading on the Nasdaq to $19.09 after having closed at $20.91 during the regular session. The shares have fallen by more than 14 percent since this time last year.

Bennett is a former CEO of Intuit and a veteran GE executive. He joined Symantec in 2012 at a time when the company was seen as a fading brand on both the consumer and enterprise security fronts.

His relatively short tenure as CEO will be best remembered for a series of corporate reorganizations. Last June he instituted a significant layoff of about 1,700 employees after announcing his intent to streamline the company into 10 operating units.

His plan had been to trim between $220 million and $250 million of Symantec¡¯s annual operating budget, he said at the time. SEC filings show that as of the nine months ended December 27, Symantec¡¯s operating costs had declined by $133 million. At that run rate, Bennett¡¯s reductions would have amounted to about $178 million, well short of the goal he laid out last year. Restructuring charges in the first nine months of the year amounted to $237 million.

Bennett followed up on the layoffs by naming five new executives to help initiate what he described as a shift in direction and who would lead an effort to ¡°drive innovative thinking.¡±

Symantec also reiterated its guidance for the quarter ending this month, saying that it expects revenue to decline by as much as 7.6 percent year on year to between $1.6 billion and $1.65 billion. It said it expects earnings per share on a GAAP basis to increase to between 29 cents and 31 cents a share, up from 27 cents in the year-ago period.

Brown, the interim CEO, joined Symantec¡¯s board after it acquired the storage company Veritas in 2005. He was previously CEO of Quantum, a $6 billion storage hard drive manufacturer that was acquired by Maxtor in 2001, which was in turn acquired by Seagate Technology in 2005.