Minutes ago, we reported that the new 2014 Mercedes S Class CKD assembly has commenced in India. Now, we¡¯ve been notified by the manufacturer that the new 2014 Mercedes S Class S500 price in India is now pegged at INR 1.36 Crores, which is almost INR 20 lakhs lesser than the CBU version that was on sale till now.

CLICK HERE FOR OUR COMPREHENSIVE 2014 MERCEDES S CLASS REVIEW

It may be noted that until recently, the car maker had plans to commence CKD assembly in India around June this year, along with the launch of the S350 CDI diesel variant However, Mercedes India has now gone ahead with the local assembly of the S500 petrol variant ahead of the launch of the diesel model. Currently, the new Mercedes S Class waiting period in India stands at three months as all the 125 units that were allotted to India stand ¡®sold¡¯ currently.

The 2014 Mercedes S Class S500 is the most powerful luxury sedan to be sold by Mercedes India and is powered by a 4.7-liter V8 twin-turbo petrol engine that has a max power of 453 bhp and peak torque of 700 Nm. The engine comes mated to a seven speed dual-clutch gearbox that sends the power to the rear wheels.

Speaking on the commencement of the local assembly of the S Class in India, Eberhard Kern, Managing Director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India said ¡°The S-Class has always set newer standards that have retained its accolade as ¡°the best automobile in the world¡± with each generation. It truly embodies our DNA and aspiration of ¡®the best or nothing¡¯ in every aspect. No other car stands for Mercedes-Benz brand promise more than the S-Class and we are delighted to manufacture the new S-Class at our state-of-the art production facility in Chakan, Pune. Quality has all along been the strength of Mercedes-Benz India, and the new S 500 production in India is set to take this success story even further. This also reiterates our commitment to bring world class manufacturing facilities in India to support our growth in the luxury automotive business¡±