SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) ¡ª Among the companies whose shares are expected to see active trade in Thursday¡¯s session are Herbalife Ltd., Dollar General Corp., and Aeropostale Inc.

Herbalife Ltd. HLF, +0.44% is expected to remain in the spotlight after nutrition supplement company revealed it is being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission. Herbalife said it ¡°welcomes the inquiry given the tremendous amount of misinformation in the marketplace.¡± The announcement comes a day after hedge fund manager Bill Ackman accused it of violating Chinese regulation. Herbalife closed down 7.4% on the news.

There are also several companies releasing quarterly results.

Dollar General DG, +0.58% is forecast to post fourth-quarter earnings of $1.01 a share, according to a consensus survey by FactSet.

Aeropostale US:ARO is projected to report a loss of 31 cents a share in the fourth quarter.

SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. SEAS, -1.39% is expected to post a loss of 15 cents a share in the fourth quarter.

Ulta Salon Cosmetics & Fragrance Inc. ULTA, -0.97% is projected to post fourth-quarter earnings of $1.07 a share.

Zumiez Inc. ZUMZ, -3.22% is likely to post earnings of 62 cents a share in the fourth quarter.

After Wednesday¡¯s closing bell, Williams-Sonoma Inc. WSM, -2.23% reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings of $1.38 a share and announced an increase in quarterly dividend to 33 cents a share from 31 cents a share. Shares of Williams-Sonoma rose more than 6% in after-hours trading.

Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. US:KKD late Wednesday said its fourth-quarter profit tripled to 21 cents a share from 7 cents a share. On an adjusted basis, Krispy Kreme would have earned 12 cents a share, slightly below the 13 cents a share forecast by analysts. The firm also plans to raise its share buyback program to $80 million from $50 million. Krispy Kreme shares jumped 9% in extended trading.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.