This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... Wal-Mart is getting in the business of pulling them back using video dance will commit Digits I'm Simon Constable and hair with warm the story Russia leap and show The will Street don't thanks to Ping An ... this is an interesting move by Wal-Mart beat the world's largest fleets a lot of alot of things sells a lot of things nozzles and buying back ... the one I ... can announce an almond say that they're going and ... be able to ... buy back ... the again for thirty one hundred of its stores ... and so Wal-Mart has ... briefly waiting to this in the past but this is the first and they're really going after the market really aggressively and its million ago after ... some other big competition and become just like GameStop and other stores ... James still has some time and then move their own mug most my street some as many in this is the ... area ... around the reasonable rates ... they really culminate this business of selling to their dens them and buying them back ... and GameStop's has more than six thousand store as they ... have faced use games make up a huge part of their business of forty four per cent ... I come from these games and they've developed a whole well the system around these people who are buying and selling game ... so this this and interesting Ammon to move within that come out very nice business I can't stop around getting people to to to realize that that's where you can go buy a new dam and also ... the additional cost as much as you can be solid back and then maybe one second and so it keeps people going through that ... competition from a company one Walmart's from Dietrich Edenor what he wants to go to Walmart and so that's a big deal and also Wal-Mart is trying to differentiate itself by saying and said just games and other things they contend for ... the Canadian game for acronym Elko or ... on you know on TV that something that GameStop discount for them and then over the offering map so this this can be of this can be a really big deal at some point out that this'll be a big deal for GameStop and I have to really differentiate themselves to fight back against