Dublin-based King said it expects to price its IPO at $US21 to $US24 per share, valuing it at up to $US7.6 billion ¨C slightly higher than Hasbro, the 90-year old maker of Monopoly and Scrabble. "I think the bankers have priced the deal in a way so that initial investors can realise a first-day pop in the stock," said Josef Schuster, founder of IPOX Schuster, a Chicago-based IPO research and investment house. Twitter's successful IPO in November and a surge in Facebook's shares have fuelled speculation other tech firms could go public, including music-streaming service Spotify, lodging website AirBnB and mobile payments company Square. However, Schuster and other analysts questioned if King could maintain its breakneck growth rate. "I think the valuation of a P/E ratio of 13 for a high-growth company is indeed reflecting a scepticism about the ability to continue growing at such a rapid pace," said Jay Ritter, a professor and IPO expert at the University of Florida.

"The ability to come up with future games and get people to pay for the game is a big question mark." Riccardo Zacconi, who has led King since co-founding the company in Sweden in 2003, will hold a 9.5 per cent stake in King after the IPO. Zacconi, 47, worked with online dating site uDate.com until it was bought by InterActive in 2002. Candy Crush launched on Facebook in April 2012. The game was released on Apple devices in November that year, followed by an app for Android devices a month later. The game has been downloaded more than 500 million times since its launch. The basic games are free, but players must pay for add-ons or extra lives.

Such stellar popularity has helped King's revenue grow to $US602 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 from $US22 million in the first quarter of 2012. But most of that growth was fuelled by Candy Crush rather than any of the 180 games King provides through mobile phones, Facebook and its own website. King, which had 665 employees at December 31, has focused on launching more games on mobile platforms, a market analysts expect will grow to $US17 billion this year from just $US6 billion in 2010. Zynga's stock price has halved since its IPO in 2011 as the popularity of Farmville waned, while Finland's Rovio has struggled to replicate the success of Angry Birds. Zynga acquired mobile game developer NaturalMotion for $US527 million and cut more than 300 jobs this year, in an effort to narrow its focus to mobile gaming.

To be sure, King's revenue for the quarter ended December 31 declined 3 per cent from the preceding quarter, which the company said was due to a fall in Candy Crush gross bookings. However, bookings rose for its other games such as Pet Rescue Saga and Farm Heroes Saga. About 73 per cent of total bookings in the quarter came from mobile users. King's five games for mobiles have drawn a "substantial fan base" Zacconi said in a filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. . "The opportunity in front of us is exciting: mobile usage is exploding and games are commanding the lion's share of time spent."

King's IPO is scheduled to be priced on March 25, two underwriters said. The stock will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "KING" on March 26. Of the 22.2 million shares on sale in the offering, the company will sell 15.5 million, while stockholders, including Apax Ventures, will sell 6.7 million shares, King said. Unlike most other tech companies that have gone public recently, King is profitable, has no debt and generated positive cash flow from operations for each of the last nine years. It posted profit before tax of $US714.3 million in 2013. In February, an average of 144 million daily active users played the company's games more than 1.4 billion times per day. At the top-end of the planned range, the IPO will raise as much as $US532.8 million, slightly more than the $US500 million placeholder figure it disclosed in its first public filing in February.