Further updated France has used a space based radar system to pierce the clouds frustrating the Australian coordinated search for flight MH370 in the Southern Indian Ocean and found evidence of substantial debris which may be from the missing Malaysia Airlines 777. In an interview carried on the US ABC network and a Kuala Lumpur [¡­]

France has used a space based radar system to pierce the clouds frustrating the Australian coordinated search for flight MH370 in the Southern Indian Ocean and found evidence of substantial debris which may be from the missing Malaysia Airlines 777.

In an interview carried on the US ABC network and a Kuala Lumpur news site French Foreign Ministry spokesman Romain Nadal says the seldom discussed satellite radar system ¡°identified some debris that could be from the Malaysian Airlines plane¡±.

He said the radar echoes, which can be converted into black-and-white images, do not have the same ¡°definition like a photograph, but they do allow us to identify the nature of an object and to localize it.¡±

Such space based radar sounding systems are rarely acknowledged by the world¡¯s space powers in public discussions, with their capabilities and technologies referred to in little more than generalities.

However France¡¯s use of the space radar, and its sharing of the southern ocean data with the MH370 search effort, brings an important new capability to bear in the zone between 2300-2600 kilometres SW of Perth where a range of objects which may be from the lost Boeing 777-200ER are being sought.

These include briefly glimpsed coloured restraining tapes floating in the vicinity of a wooden pallet which may have been used to secure cargo loaded in the belly of the Malaysia Airlines flight. Flight MH370 had 239 people on board when it took off from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing on 8 March, only to disappear from air traffic control radar 42 minutes after departure.

Satellite radar soundings could penetrate the bad visibility that frustrated yesterday¡¯s attempts by aircraft and ships to locate one or perhaps more large objects already seen at optical wavelengths by an American and a Chinese satellite on 16 March and 18 March respectively.

A late night update issued by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority says nothing new was found by air or sea in the search area yesterday Sunday, which despite earlier hopes for improved visibility, saw viewing conditions deteriorate and frustrate searchers. The statement didn¡¯t refer to the new French satellite data which the authorities in KL said was sent to AMSA yesterday. There would be a very good reason for not referring to it should it involve disclosures about sensitive space systems capabilities.

Today¡¯s search activities will have additional aircraft from China and Japan available for the first time, and the targets for aircraft and vessels will be refined using data from buoys dropped yesterday and the previous day to give real time information on wind and ocean current and wave conditions.

In a radio interview this morning the Transport and Infrastructure Minister Warren Truss confirmed French reports that the objects identified by space radar are some 800 kilometres or so north of the areas where US and China satellite images found a large object last week, and where transient sightings were made in bad visibility of a wooden pallet and some cargo straps over the weekend.