TALLAHASSEE ¡ª Florida's unemployment rate for September fell to 6.1 percent, a drop of 0.2 percentage points from August and the lowest it has been since June 2008, state officials said Friday.

Florida's drop mirrors the federal dip in unemployment, with the national jobless rate at 5.9 percent. The state's rate has fluctuated between 6.2 percent and 6.3 percent for most of the year.

In Central Florida, the unemployment rate for September in Orange County was 5.6 percent, 6.3 percent in Osceola, 6.2 percent in Lake and 5.9 percent in Volusia.

The latest numbers ¡ª the last that will be released before the Nov. 4 election ¡ª could help Gov. Rick Scott, who has argued during the campaign that his policies have lowered unemployment during the recovery. Scott has blamed his main challenger Charlie Crist, a Republican while serving as governor, for a steep rise in unemployment during the recession.

"Charlie is the zero-wage governor: 832,000 people went from wages to zero wages when Charlie was governor," Scott said during a debate Wednesday at Broward College in Davie.

Crist responded by saying that a governor isn't responsible for a global economic meltdown or its recovery.

"It is unbelievable that he would continue to say that, but he says it. And he also says he created all these new jobs all by himself," Crist said during the debate.

In announcing the latest figures, Scott continued to focus strictly on private-sector job growth.

In a brief video released Friday, Scott noted, "September was a great month for job creation; 12,800 private-sector jobs added in September."

During the past year, while construction, professional services, education and leisure and hospitality had the biggest job gains, government was the only area to lose jobs, according to the Department of Economic Opportunity.

The overall number of government jobs in Florida went down by 1,400, due to cuts at the local level. State jobs have grown by 800 in the past year, while federal jobs in Florida have increased by 200.

News Service of Florida contributed to this report.