Symantec has terminated Steve Bennett as CEO and replaced him with board member Michael Brown as president and chief exec on an interim basis.

¡°We recognise Steve¡¯s contributions to Symantec, including developing and leading a series of successful initiatives focused on organisational realignment, cost reduction and process effectiveness,¡± said chairman Daniel Schulman in a statement.

¡°These changes have helped establish a solid foundation for Symantec¡¯s future, and we remain committed to our previously announced greater-than 5% organic revenue growth and better-than 30% non-GAAP operating margin targets by FY17.¡±

The company also confirmed a special committee of the board will immediately commence the search for a new permanent CEO, as well as republishing its fiscal outlook previously published on January 29. Symantec¡¯s revenue will be of $1.615 to $1.655bn, compared to $1.748bn a year ago.

Yet the CEO shuffle is grabbing the headlines. Schulman added: ¡°Our priority is now to identify a leader who can leverage our company¡¯s assets and leadership team to drive the next stage of Symantec¡¯s product innovation and growth.

¡°This considered decision was the result of an ongoing deliberative process, and not precipitated by any event or impropriety.¡±

In other words, rearrange the following ¨C man dead walking ¨C and you¡¯ve pretty much got it.

Bennett¡¯s tenure at Symantec may be seen more sympathetically with the benefit of hindsight given his remit was to slim down and transform the company, having said when he took the helm: ¡°I believe our assets are better than our performance and I need to understand what¡¯s in the way.¡±

The company married up its MDM and MAM offerings at the Symantec Vision convention in Las Vegas back in April, with the suite also offering mobile mail client, single sign on for MAM and MAM connection security, proving the value of enterprise mobility in its portfolio.

Whoever takes over the reins at Symantec will perhaps want to go better than emulating Bennett, or the previous CEO Enrique Salem, who left in July 2012, but John W. Thompson, chief exec from 1999 and 2009 and now chairman of the board of directors at Microsoft.

The company said they had nothing further to add when Enterprise AppsTech enquired.

Interested in hearing industry leaders discuss subjects like this and sharing their use-cases? Attend the co-located IoT Tech Expo, Blockchain Expo, AI & Big Data Expo and Cyber Security & Cloud Expo World Series with upcoming events in Silicon Valley, London and Amsterdam and explore the future of enterprise technology.