TOKYO ¨C Mt. Gox, the Bitcoin exchange based here that filed for bankruptcy protection last month, said on Wednesday that it had asked the Japanese police for advice on Bitcoins worth half a billion dollars that the company claims were stolen by hackers.

It remains unclear, however, whether the Tokyo Metropolitan Police will start a formal investigation into the purported heist. Very few of the investors who were left in the lurch when Mt. Gox shut down last month are Japanese, and the government has signaled that it intends to take a hands-off approach to regulating the virtual currency. Some Mt. Gox investors, meanwhile, have claimed that there was fraud at the exchange.

Mt. Gox said in a statement on its website that it had discussed the situation with the Tokyo Metropolitan Police, and handed over electronic records and other materials the exchange ¡°thought would be necessary¡± for an investigation into the missing virtual currency.

An official with the Tokyo police refused to confirm that it had been contacted by Mt. Gox, or that an investigation was underway. He spoke on condition of anonymity, citing police protocol. Lawyers representing Mt. Gox could not be reached immediately for comment.

Mt. Gox, led by its chief executive, Mark Karpeles, was once a pioneering platform in the world of online virtual currencies that allowed users to buy Bitcoins or sell them for cash.

But the exchange filed for bankruptcy protection last month, saying it had lost 750,000 of its customers¡¯ Bitcoins, along with 100,000 of its own, likely to online hackers. Mt. Gox also said about $28 million of money in its bank accounts was unaccounted for.

Mt. Gox subsequently filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States, where it faces a class-action lawsuit from investors in the exchange who claim fraud was committed.

In a bizarre twist, Mt. Gox reported last week that it had found 200,000 missing Bitcoins, worth about $116 million, in an online ¡°wallet¡± that it had previously thought was empty. That discovery underscored the difficulties of getting a clear accounting of Mt. Gox¡¯s Bitcoin holdings, and of verifying its account of its losses.

An administrator appointed by the Tokyo District Court is expected to determine soon whether Mt. Gox still has the means to rehabilitate its business, or whether it should be liquidated.