The gunman responsible for the worst mass shooting in modern US history is believed to be a grandfather who lived in a remote desert home, reports Leon Watson.

Stephen Paddock, 64, was named by police as the perpetrator who left more than 50 dead. He was killed when officers blasted their way into his hotel room.

Where was he from?

Paddock is reported to have lived in a retirement village in Mesquite, Nevada, since June 2016 and was born on April 9, 1953.

It is claimed he previously lived in Reno, Nevada, from 2011 to 2016, and also had an address in Melbourne, Florida, from 2013 to 2015.

He has also lived in Henderson, Nevada, and several locations in California since 1990, it is reported.

Mesquite is located about 80 miles, or an hour and 16 minutes, away from Las Vegas, along Nevada¡¯s border with Arizona.

Mesquite, a city in Clark County, is home to about 17,400 people, including several retirement communities, along with casinos and golf courses.

Did he act alone?

Despite initial reports of multiple gunmen, police do not believe at this time that there were any other attackers.

Sheriff Joseph Lombardo, of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, described Paddock as a "lone wolf".

Officers were initially seeking his travelling companion - Marilou Danley - who has now been located. She is believed to have been his roommate.

At this stage, Paddock does not have any known ties to terrorist organisation and no motive has been put forward.

When asked by a reporter if it was an act of terrorism, Sheriff Lombardo said: ¡°No, not at this point. We believe it was a local individual. He resides here locally.

"I¡¯m not at liberty to give you his place of residence yet, because it¡¯s an ongoing investigation, we don¡¯t know what his belief system was at this time. ¡­ Right now we believe he is the sole aggressor at this point and the scene is static."

Was Paddock known to authorities?

NBC reports that he was. But public records do not show any criminal convictions for Paddock in Nevada.

Mesquite Police told CBS News that he was not known to them, and that he lived in a retirement community, is a white male and wasn't a military veteran.

What was his motive?

He was not believed to be connected to any militant group, Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo told reporters.

"We have no idea what his belief system was," Lombardo said. "We've located numerous firearms within the room that he occupied."