SHANGHAI (Reuters) - A Chinese Communist Party journal said on Saturday that the country may experience near-term pain from trade friction with the United States, including a negative impact on financial stability, but China¡¯s stable growth trend would not change.

A commentary in the ideological journal Qiushi, or Seeking Truth, warned that trade and economic friction between Washington and Beijing could undermine ¡°China¡¯s economic growth, financial stability, trade and investment, employment and people¡¯s livelihoods,¡± particularly in industries exposed to tariff action by the United States.

¡°But at the same time, we must see that the fundamentals of China¡¯s economic development have not changed. In particular, China¡¯s economic structure has been significantly improved in recent years, which has effectively improved its ability to withstand external shocks.¡±

The United States had ¡°provoked¡± these frictions, but China would accelerate research and development of core technologies, optimize its industrial structure, promote market diversification, and strengthen support provided by domestic demand to ¡°turn bad into good,¡± the commentary said.

It said that China¡¯s macroeconomic management had ¡°sufficient policy space¡± to counter negative impacts, with fiscal policies potentially playing a ¡°greater role in expanding domestic demand and restructuring¡±.

¡°Unblocking the transmission mechanism of monetary policy and guiding funds to invest in the real economy, particularly small and micro-enterprises, can alleviate the problem of difficult or expensive financing and strengthen the ability of the financial industry and the real economy to withstand risks,¡± it said.

¡°A just cause finds much support, an unjust one finds little,¡± the commentary said, quoting the Chinese philosopher Mencius. ¡°Over time, Sino-U.S. economic and trade frictions will surely continue to develop in a direction favorable to China.¡±

In a separate Qiushi commentary on Saturday, Chinese Commerce Minister Zhong Shan called for ¡°proactively expanding imports to promote balanced trade¡±.

China must ¡°strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights, protect the legitimate rights and interests of foreign investors, and create a good business environment for investing in China,¡± Zhong wrote.

China will ¡°greatly relax market access¡± and ¡°steadily expand the opening of the financial industry, continue to promote the opening of the service industry and deepen the opening up of the agricultural, mining and manufacturing sectors,¡± he said.

China has made moves to ease foreign investment curbs amid Beijing¡¯s trade dispute with the United States.

But an official said earlier this year that China¡¯s opening of its financial sector to foreign banks and financial institutions would be based on the principal of reciprocity, and would not reward protectionism by other countries.