Below you will find current TD Bank's posted 5-year fixed and variable mortgage rates. Use Ratehub.ca's comparison chart to evaluate other banks, brokerages and lenders against TD Bank and ensure you get the best mortgage rate!

TD Canada Trust's assurance that 'banking can be this comfortable' applies to its mortgage process as well. TD employs a number of online tools to aid your purchase decision, such as the Home Buyer's Checklist, a printout used to compare details on different properties; a mortgage terms glossary; a home life e-newsletter; tips on saving money to finance your home, and information on associated homebuyers insurance.

Above and beyond standard fixed and variable mortgage rate products, with the associated open or closed terms, TD offers a variety of specialty mortgage products outlined below.

TD's Six-Month Convertible Mortgage is a six-month mortgage with the option of converting to a longer closed term at any time at no cost to you.

The 5% CashBack Mortgage applies to TD's six-year fixed-rate residential mortgage, whereupon TD will give you cash in an amount equal to 5% of the mortgage principal, up front.

The Green Mortgage makes you eligible for a 1% discount off the posted interest rate and up to a 1.5% cash rebate when you make ENERGY STAR qualified purchases or the purchase of CSA approved solar panels.

The High Ratio Mortgage allows you to buy a home with a down payment of as little as 5%.

The Multi-Unit Residential Mortgage is available to those considering a mortgage on a residential property with five or more units.

And finally, TD has a dedicated Agriculture Services arm with a Farm Mortgage, for those interested in more than just a hobby farm, and a Rural Property Mortgage exclusively for countryside properties.

For all TD mortgages, payments can be increased by up to 100% over the term without charge, and, with the exception of the 1-year Open Mortgage and the 5-year Open Variable Interest Rate Mortgage, you can pay down up to 15% of your original mortgage amount each year.

TD is one of Canada's largest banking institutions, with an established history and network of trust, such that if you have an existing relationship with them, it is natural for you to consider them first for your mortgage and consolidating your services. However, we here at Ratehub.ca cannot stress enough how important it is to compare your bank's rates against other lenders and mortgage brokers, to obtain the best mortgage interest rate.

As with all the rates displayed on Ratehub.ca, TD mortgage rates are updated every day and can be found above. You can access these rates conveniently, without stepping foot outside your home, by either filling out an online mortgage application or simply speaking with a TD mortgage agent over the phone. To get started, connect with an authorized TD mortgage broker by clicking on one of the TD mortgage rates above.

The mortgage application itself can be overwhelming, so be prepared to share and have ready a variety of sources of information such as annual income, employment information, existing assets and liabilities, and financial history.

Here is a list of the additional information inputs you will need to fill out your mortgage application and obtain your TD mortgage rate:

TD Bank offers various TD Bank credit cards, including rewards cards and low interest cards, as well as TD Bank GICs, available in a variety of terms.

TD Canada Trust is TD Bank Financial Group's personal and small business banking division. Serving more than 11 million customers nationally, TD provides a full range of financial products and services through its network of 1,100 retail branches, telephone and internet banking, and more than 2600 'TD Green Machine' automated banking machines.