The agency wants to increase its budget, tripling the spending for investigating defects, but has met resistance from Congress.

Mark Rosekind, the federal government's chief auto safety official in metro Detroit this week to deliver the opening address at the Automated Vehicles Symposium in Ann Arbor on Tuesday, said he wants the agency to work on preventing tragedies, not just react to them.

Rosekind, who became administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration last year, said he wants the agency to have a "more direct, clear emphasis" on "safety, safety, safety."

Rosekind, who met with reporters today in Detroit to talk about a wide range of issues, is under pressure to crack down on the auto industry and to fix problems identified last month in the Inspector General's audit of the agency. He's also trying to convince Congress and voters that the agency needs more money and more people to do its job.

The audit was initiated amid last year's delayed recall of an ignition switch defect in General Motors vehicles that has been linked to 124 deaths. An independent investigation by a former federal prosecutor found GM engineers knew of the problem at least a decade earlier.

"The GM ignition switch has triggered change at NHTSA," he said.

Rosekind has said the agency's mission is to save lives, prevent injuries and reduce crashes.

Still, the audit found NHTSA provided too little guidance to automakers, seldom tried to verify information it received, and let dangerous problems persist under a convoluted, overworked system.

NHTSA, which has a little more than 600 employees, is responsible for overseeing the safety of vehicles on the roads.The agency wants to increase its budget, tripling the spending for investigating defects, but has met resistance from Congress.

In May, Rosekind announced an agreement with Takata, one of the world's largest air bag suppliers to expand its recall of defective air bags to nearly 34 million cars and trucks. Takata admitted that its air bag inflators are defective in a recall that includes 11 automakers.

Rosekind said he expects to know by the end of the month which action the agency will take against Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, which regulators have accused of not making repairs fast enough on recalled vehicles. FCA is under scrutiny for its handling of nearly two dozen recalls involving about 11 million vehicles.

In many ways, he said, the agency is up against a long history of reacting to tragedy -- rather than preventing it.

NHTSA also is caught between lawmakers and customers who, in some cases, want to see more oversight, and automakers, who, in others, are pushing for less.

Before being named administrator, he was a member of the National Transportation Safety Board -- another safety agency which investigates aviation, marine and railroad accidents. He points to the NTSB as a model for the culture he hopes to instill at NHTSA.

Rosekind, who has a doctorate from Yale, is an expert on fatigue.

"Given the resources we have, we're going to use all available tools to get things done," he said. "Having said all of that that, I don't mind telling you that I also think one of our agendas clearly -- because I keep talking about this -- is to try to get the auto industry more proactive. Everybody is reactive, even NHTSA."