A combination of rising China-U. S. trade tensions and the highest number of U.S. oil rigs in three years saw oil futures end sharply lower Friday, sealing the biggest weekly decline for the U.S. benchmark since early February.

On the New York Mercantile Exchange, West Texas Intermediate futures for May delivery US:CLK8 the U.S. benchmark, dropped $1.48, or 2.3%, to end at $62.06 a barrel. June Brent crude UK:LCOM8 the global benchmark, dropped $1.22, or 1.8%, to close at $67.11 on London¡¯s Intercontinental Exchange. Both benchmarks posted their lowest close since March 19. WTI fell 4.4% for the week, its biggest such decline since the week ended Feb. 9. Brent saw a 3.2% weekly fall, its biggest since the week ended March 2.

Losses mounted after oil-field services firm Baker Hughes said the number of U.S. oil rigs rose by 11 to 808, the highest number since March 2015. That underscored worries about rising U.S. output.

Oil began the day under pressure after the White House said, in a statement after the market close Thursday, that Trump has asked the U.S. Trade Representative to consider an extra $100 billion in Chinese goods to face tariffs and to identify the products that could be targeted, escalating protectionist trade tensions that market participants fear could disrupt global economies and potentially impact crude demand, even if on a short-term basis.

¡°After all, the U.S. and China are the world¡¯s largest oil consumer and oil importer countries. If the trade conflict escalates and slows oil demand in the U.S. and China, this would have an impact on the market balance that could hardly be ignored,¡± wrote commodity analysts led by Eugen Weinberg at Commerzbank.

However, energy traders have been heartened by price-supportive supply data, with the U.S. Energy Information Administration reporting on Wednesday that U.S. crude stockpiles fell by 4.6 million barrels last week¡ªthe biggest weekly decline since January, beating analysts¡¯ forecasts.

Oil investors continue to focus on fundamentals, which will most directly inform how the commodity trades. Those factors include rising tensions in the Middle East between major oil producers Iran and Saudi Arabia, along with expectations the U.S. may withdraw from the international nuclear deal with Iran and reinstate sanctions.

Meanwhile, March jobs data came in weaker than expected, showing the U.S. economy added just 103,000 jobs versus forecasts for a rise of 170,000¡ªthough the data showed the labor market remains the tightest in nearly two decades.

Read: Weak jobs report gives Fed more time to decide whether to shoot for four hikes this year

In other energy products trade, Nymex reformulated gasoline blendstock US:RBK8 ¡ªthe benchmark gasoline contract¡ªlost 2.69 cents, or 1.4%, to end at $1.9547 a gallon, marking a 3.3% weekly decline. May heating US:HOK8 lost 1.87 cents, or 1%, to $1.9578 a gallon, contributing to a 3.1% weekly fall.

May natural gas US:NGK18 meanwhile, rose 2.6 cents, or 1%, to settle at $2.701 per million British thermal units, trimming its weekly decline to 1.2%.

Analysts said natural gas was buoyed by forecasts for unseasonably cold weather to continue into next week. Indeed, weather reports are forecasting three separate snow storms set to hit the Midwest and East in coming days, according to The Weather Channel.

Want news about Asia delivered to your inbox? Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Asia Daily newsletter. Sign up here.