Keeping the pound without a formal currency union would force major banks to relocate from Scotland after independence, one of the country's leading economists predicted yesterday.

Dr Angus Armstrong warned that if a separate Scotland goes it alone with the pound 每 so-called sterlingisation 每 the lack of an effective lender of last resort would see financial institutions flee south.

That would diminish one of Scotland's key export sectors and trigger repercussions for the economy, with a separate currency possibly created in the end, according to Dr Armstrong, director of macroeconomics at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR).

The economist also rubbished Alex Salmond's threat to walk away from Scotland's share of UK national debt without a currency union, saying such a move would have "repercussions" in Europe.

Other European countries with secessionist movements 每 such as Spain 每 may not want to give a debt-free Scotland EU membership for fear of creating a precedent, it was suggested.

The intervention seriously undermines a currency option the First Minister has repeatedly flaunted when asked what he would do if Westminster wouldn't share the pound after independence.

The First Minister is under pressure to name his "Plan B" currency after repeatedly refusing to do so when quizzed by Alistair Darling during a live TV debate, which voters in a snap poll said he lost.

In public appearances after the debate Mr Salmond said going it alone with the pound after independence would be "quite attractive", while yesterday he said: "It＊s our pound and we＊re keeping it."

But a new NIESR report looking into how sterlingisation would actually work identified serious shortcomings.

Scotland would lose the Bank of England as its automatic lender of last resort under sterlingisation (also called dollarisation), meaning another way to bail out the banks would need to be found.

Yet none of the three possible solutions would work and be acceptable to an independent government, according to the authors, Dr Armstrong and Dr David McCarthy, a visiting fellow at NIESR.

Dr Armstrong said at a press briefing that if an independent Scotland went it alone with the pound a "financial border" would be created, forcing financial institutions to decided on which side to be based.

"One of the costs of dollarisation is you give up having shared ownership of a fully functioning central bank. That matters for your banking system," said Dr Armstrong at a press briefing.

"We came to the conclusion that actually it is very difficult to see how you would provide reasonable lender of last resort support for the Scottish financial sector."

"The consequence of that is that we believe that large systemic financial institutions will consider where they are domiciled."

He added that the UK financial services regulator would not want major banks like RBS and Lloyds based "offshore" in an "oversees market" and would force them to move large parts of their business into the UK.

Dr Armstrong added that were an independent Scotland to create its own currency it would be a "game-changer", because then the nation would have its own central bank.

"If you really believe that you are going to be credible and have a [productive] economy, what are you frightened of floating for? Because that does get you out of this one," said Dr Armstrong.

Asked about Mr Salmond's threat to leave behind Scotland's share of the debt, Dr Armstrong said: "There would be repercussions because of the precedent it would set in the rest of Europe."

"There is obviously a lot of debt in many countries in Europe. There are some countries in Europe which have regions that have thought about secession."

Danny Alexander, chief secretary to the Treasury, said the report showed borrowing the pound would be "damaging for a separate Scotland＊s economy and a terrible choice for Scotland＊s financial sector".

A spokesman for the First Minister declined to say whether their would be consequences for Scotland if it left behind its share of UK debt. He said a currency union would be in the interest of both sides after independence.