Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 took off from Kuala Lumpur on March 8, 2014, headed for Beijing. It never arrived. All 227 passengers and 12 crew are presumed dead after radar data showed the Boeing 777's last recorded position over a remote part of the southern Indian Ocean.

After sixteen months of exhaustive underwater searches, debris thought to be part of a 777 washed up on a remote French island in the western Indian Ocean. As Malaysian and French investigators make sense of the wreckage to possibly help solve the mystery of MH370's disappearance, we look back on the victims on the ill-fated jet.

One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition. Resident of Habahe county in Northern Xinjiang province.

Bao and Liu had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition. Bao was director of Nanjing's Social and Technology Statistics Bureau.

Chinese-born Bai and her husband Muktesh Mukherjee had been returning from a holiday to Vietnam. The pair lived in Beijing with their sons Mirav, 9, and Miles, 2.

Originally from Tianjin, it was Bian¡¯s first time travelling overseas.

A dentistry graduate from Shijiazhuang in Hebei, Bian Liangjing left his wife and infant daughter in 2013 to work as a construction worker in Singapore. He was on a transfer flight to Beijing ¨C his first flight back home.

Known as Biby, the wife of former Celcom chief executive officer Datuk Mohamed Ramli Abbas, was travelling with her two daughters, Dina, 30 and Maria, 32, as well as her younger sister Noorida.

A resident of the Siberian city of Irkutsk, Brodskii was a scuba diving instructor who was returning to Russia from a diving holiday in Bali, Indonesia. He is a husband and father of sons aged 17 and 11.

Rodney and Mary Burrows were travelling with their friends Catherine and Robert Lawton. The Burrows, parents of two adult daughters and a son, had just moved house a fortnight before the flight.

Cao worked for a foreign company in Beijing and travelled to Malaysia for a business trip. Her colleagues went back to Beijing after the trip, but Cao stayed behind with husband Ma Jun to celebrate their delayed honeymoon. Ma, who worked for another foreign firm, used his annual leave to be with Cao for their romantic trip.

Known as Jesse, he was an engineer at Malaysian company Freescale Semiconductor, one of 20 employees the company confirmed was on the flight. Lived in Kuala Lumpur with his wife Janet and their two children Xanthus and Lukas

Wife of Zhang Jinquan, Che was part of the group of Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend the art exhibition

Chen was on his way home to visit his dying father in Shandong province. His father died the day Malaysia Airlines announced the plane was missing

The couple were on holiday without their children aged 15 and 11. Son Eric Chen, 15, said his parents had skipped their routine of praying at a temple near their house in Klang before going on their trip.

Retriee returning home from a trip in Nepal with friends, transiting through Malaysia.

Maybank employee travelling to Beijing for work. Her mother thought she had left on March 6th and had no idea she was on the flight.

Travelling with her husband and elder son on a business trip to Beijing.

An engineer working for Eastman Chemical Co. in Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, she was returning to the US via Beijing.

Worked for a Chinese software company. Wife of Wang Rui and mother of Jiao Weiwei.

Described as an ¡°independent¡± woman by her friends, Dahlia was born in Indonesia, lived in the Netherlands and had gone to Malaysia for vacation. Dahlia¡¯s friends say that she had been looking forward to the holiday and the chance to meet a man that she had gotten to know over the internet.

Returning to China for a family reunion for the first time after relocating to Singapore for work in the construction industry.

A painter and art teacher in Nanjing. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

Travelling with wife Zhang Yanhui. Formerly a senior official of Qinhuangdao's Administration of Work Safety in Hebei.

From Lianyungang in Jiangsu province, living at working in Singapore.

A painter from Anhui province, One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition. Former deputy secretary of Liuan city-level propaganda department.

One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

Was deputy director of the international liaison office of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions.

Born in Shanghai, studied in Sydney. Split her time between Australia and China.

A Penang-born engineer who had been on her way to Beijing for a business trip. She was an employee of US technology company Freescale Semiconductor.

Worked for the American company Freescale Semiconductor Inc, in China. Father of a four-year-old boy.

A single mother, Han treated herself to a luxurious vacation abroad. The last time she contacted her family was on March 4, 2014, when she sent a message to her sister, informing her of the trip. To save money, she didn¡¯t get international calling or internet service for her phone.

Retired employee of Kuala Lumpur City Hall, travelling to Beijing on a holiday.

Was transiting home after a group tour to Nepal. Nine people from the group decided to take flight MH370, because promotional tickets from China Southern Airlines were sold out. Hou once joked to her tour guide that the flight was a good deal, for she would have visited one more country than her other teammates due to the layover in Kuala Lumpur.

Marketing director of a ibicn.com, a B2B commerce website. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

Used to work for the Beijing air force.

Jiang waited tables in Kuala Lumpur for three years before returning to China. She flew to visit a good friend, who got married in Kuala Lumpur and stayed there for 12 days before boarding the flight.

Married to Wang Rui, also onboard. The mother of Wang Moheng, the flight's youngest passenger.

Martial artist travelling to Beijing on a business trip. Ju worked on 2013 film The Grandmaster as assistant to Yuen Woo-ping, the action choreographer.

Kang was an MBA student at Peking University and worked for a foreign trade company in Beijing. He could speak five languages, and was a father to a one-year-old daughter. He went to Malaysia for a business trip.

A family from Mumbai, Chetana was microbiologist who was on the flight with her husband Vinod and younger son Swandand to visit the couple's eldest son, Sanved, in Beijing. Husband Vinod was a retired engineer at one of India¡¯s biggest conglomerates, Mahindra & Mahindra. Swandand, meanwhile, received an engineering degree and was at the time trying to get into the Indian Institute of Technology, one of India¡¯s most prestigious colleges, for further studies.

Did not board the flight, his passport was used by an Iranian man.

Married couple from Queensland who were travelling with their good friends the Burrowses (also on board) on a holiday.

Both in their late 20s, they worked for Freescale Semiconductor Inc.

Used to work for Changhe Aircraft Industries Group.

Travelling with four colleagues on a business trip.

A calligrapher. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

A graduate from the Communications University of China who was soon to be married.

From Henan province, returning form a holiday in Malaysia with her husband and four other friends, also on board.

Partner in a Beijing startup software firm, married to Gu Naijun, also on board.

Hubei native who held a doctoral degree from Cambridge. Working for a multinational corporation based in Beijing.

A painter. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

Li tried to launch a job as a construction worker in Singapore but failed. Father of a 12-year-old daughter and six-year-old son.

Li was returning to his home in Chengde, Hebei province. Worked in real estate doing business in Malaysia and had a seven year old daighter.

A migrant worker in Singapore, Lin was flying home to visit his family. He has an 11-year-old daughter and a six-year-old son. Lin¡¯s sister said he originally planned to arrive home on March 10, but rescheduled his flight to travel with two friends.

Construction worker from Shandong province who had worked in Singapore for over four years. He had decided to go travelling while on a two week break from work.

A painter from Dalian, Liaoning province. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

A calligrapher. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.

A painter and art teacher from Kashgar, Xinjiang province. One of a group of 24 Chinese artists who had travelled to Kuala Lumpur to attend an art exhibition.Travelling abroad for the first time.

A painter and member of the Sichuan Artists Assosciation.

Did not board the flight; his passport was used by an Iranian man.

Nor graduated from Queen¡¯s University with a Bachelor of Science degree from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in 1999 and married fellow ¡¯99 grad Azrai Izet Mohamad. They resided in Malaysia and Nor had been heading to Beijing on business when the tragedy occurred.

Meng Bing was flying with children Nicole and Leo, both American citizens, along with his wife and parents.

The father and mother of Meng Bing, respectively.

A resident of Huanren Manchu Autonomous County in eastern Liaoning province. She was reportedly pregnant and traveling with her husband, in-laws and two children, Nicole and Leo. She had dual citizenship in China and America.

Both Mohammad and Mohammadreza used Iranian passports to fly from Doha to Kuala Lumpur before boarding the MH370 flight to Beijing using stolen documents. Media reports have indicated that both men were seeking a new life in Europe. Mohammad had been hoping to join his mother in Germany, and had planned to transit from Beijing to Amsterdam and finally Frankfurt.

An aviation engineer employed by a private jet charter company, travelling to Beijing for work. Father of a 15-month-old daughter.

Mohamad had received an international posting from Malaysia's Ministry of International Trade and Industry and was on his way to Beijing to report for work.

Freescale employee, planning to stay in Beijing for one month.

The couple, who recently experienced a miscarriage of their baby, were travelling to Beijing on her honeymoon. He was a salesman at the supermarket chain AEON in Kuala Lumpur. He loved singing songs, riding motorcycles and playing video games. She worked as an assistant at Prima Elite Technology, an aviation maintenance company.

A marketing manager whose children cried when he left his house to go to the airport. According to Puspanathan's grandfather, both children "acted weirdly and did not want [their father] to leave the house". Puspanathan nearly cancelled his flight but still ended up leaving.

Married with children, he was on his way to a training course in Beijing with colleagues from the US based tech company Freescale Semiconductors. He checked in on Facebook before boarding the flight and responded in disgust to his friend¡¯s insensitive joke about having dog soup in China.

Director of the International Collective in Support of Fishworkers (ICSF) in Chennai, en route to Mongolia for a conference.

From Anyang, Henan procince, Returning home from a business trip in Australia.

A chemistry lecturer on her way to North Korea to visit her husband who works there for the international nonprofit Concern Worldwide. The couple have two sons in primary school.

His friend recalled him as cheerful, friendly and generous. He worked in a company before setting up three kindergartens in Nanjiang, China.

Siregar had recently been employed by American-owned oil company Schlumberger.and was participating in an orientation in Malaysia. He graduated from the Bandung Institute of Technology.

A construction worker in Singapore employed by a Chinese company that was based in Anhui province. Song had worked in Singapore since September 2013.

Wife of Zhang Siming, also on board.

The brothers were travelling together on their annual trip to China.

Electrical contractor. He dreamed for four years of a vacation with wife Vinny Chynthya Tio, with home he had three children, but both of them had little time for it. They boarded on the missing plane for a trip to China, a gift given by friend.

He left for China, where he worked on March 8th, while his wife was expecting a child in Malaysia. They also have a one-year-old daughter.

Tan had been travelling with his Taiwanese wife, Chuang Hsiu-ling, and son to Beijing for a vacation.

The son of Tan Ahmeng and Chuang Hsiu-ling.

Tan was a businessman who founded a mining company in Malaysia. He was father to two children, 17 and 13 at the time of the plane's disappearance. Tan loved cooking extravagant meals for his family and taking them on overseas trips.

The couple spent a holiday in Nepal before boarding a flight to return to China.

Father to a toddler who turned two at the time of his disappearance.

An engineer for Huawei who had been stationed in Malaysia since 2012, Tian was originally from Wendeng county, Shandong province.

Tian and his wife Xie Liping worked in the finance industry and were returning home after accompanying their son to Melborne.

A former teacher and lawyer of De Yi Jun Da law firm in Shandong province.

The manager of an art website.

A member of the Jiangsu Artists Association. Husband of fellow passenger Xiong Deming.

Wang worked in China¡¯s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT). He was a top student in his high school, received the highest score on the college entrance examination in Funing country and graduated from Peking University.

Originally from Hebei, Wang had been working in Singapore.

A construction worker in Singapore who had been on his way home to Hebei province for a family reunion.

The youngest passenger on flight MH370. The son of Wang Rui and Jiao Weiwei, Wang Moheng was only 23 months old at the time of the flight¡¯s disappearance. According to friends, his parents had taken him on his first overseas trip to ¡°escape the bad air¡± of Beijing.

Believed to be the sister of Hadrien Wattrelos and the daughter of Laurence Wattrelos.

Two high school sweethearts who attended Lycee Francais International de Pekin, also known as the French School of Beijing.

Believed to be the mother of Hadrien and Ambre. Listed as vice president of the parent-teacher association of the French School of Beijing.

A mechanical engineer who had been on his way to a new job in Mongolia. He planned to return as often as possible to his home in Perth, Australia, where he left his wife and two young sons.

Businessman and a MBA graduate from Peking University. The father-of-two celebrated his son¡¯s one year-old birthday before setting off for a four day business trip to Malaysia.

Originally from Henan, Weng was the owner of a cosmetics company.

A senior marketing manager at Malaysia Land Properties. According to his wife, Wong had not been scheduled for MH370 but had taken the plane after missing an earlier flight.

An IBM executive who had worked in Bejing in the past two years. He was described by friends as an ¡°adventurous¡± person who was on his last trip to China before taking up a position in Kuala Lumpur

Worked for Freescale Semiconductor in Tianjin, China. Mother of a four-year-old child, she loved posting travel photos with husband.

Xing worked in the trade industry and travelled between Malaysia and Beijing on flight MH370 over a dozen of times a year. He was planning to marry his girlfriend this year.

An employee of Shell who graduated from Jilin Univeristy and completed graduate studies at the University of Southern California. Xing was a Harbin resident.

The wife of Wang Linshi. Described by her son as ¡°sweet and thoughtful¡±.

Was returning to China from a Nepal trip.

Yang had been returning from a trip to Malaysia with her mother.

An associate Dean at the National University of Singapore.

Chairwoman of the investment committee of Delong Holdings, a steel manufacturing and trading group in Beijing.

A business student from Inner Mongolia who had travelled to Malaysia to visit his girlfriend Jessie. Yue studied in the UK.

Freescale Semiconductor worker Yusop was on his way to Beijing for a Business trip. According to the , He asked his mother to accompany him to the airport but she declined because his father is ill.

Vice president of the China Welfare Charity. Had travelled to Malaysia to set up a meeting on the charity¡¯s behalf.

An investment company employee and assistant of fellow passenger Yue Guiju.

A Haozhou native who had been living in Beijing.

A government employee of China¡¯s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT).

A participant in an international convention in Manila, on board MH370 for a transfer flight. Originally from Hanan province¡¯s Zhengzhou, Zhang was the wife of fellow passenger Yan Peng. Both Zhang and her husband were on a tourist trip to Malaysia.

A fake passport with Zhao¡¯s name was used. Fujian police have said that the true holder of the passport currently lives in the province and has never travelled abroad.

A migrant worker who was taking a transfer flight from Singapore to return home to Hebei province¡¯s Dingzhou after a year-long working contract. Zhao tried to have a video chat with his wife at the airport but she declined, saying it would wake up their one-year old child.

The day flight MH370 went missing was her birthday.

Calligrapher and senior adviser of the Shenzhen-based Sunshine Insurance Group.'

Penang-born Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, was a veteran pilot with 18,365 flying hours under his belt in a 33-year career. He had a penchant for flying remote-controlled aircraft, as shown by photos sourced from his Facebook page, as well as using a Boeing 777 flight simulator system he owned to hone his passion for aviation. A friend described him a very caring and friendly person. "If he were sitting with us, he would be the one moving things on the table making sure you have your food and coffee," the friend told the . Zaharie had a wife and two children.

The first officer on the flight and the one who was said to have uttered the last voice transmission from the plane: "All right, good night."

With additional reporting by Yifei Chen and Kelly Liu