U.S. stocks closed lower Thursday with almost all S&P 500 sectors falling in what some strategists described as a typical late-summer session characterized by low trading volumes.

Investor were also keeping an eye on a gathering of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyo., where Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell will be the featured speaker on Friday.

How did the benchmarks fare?

The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.43% slipped 76.62 points, or 0.3%, to end at 25,656.98. The S&P 500 index SPX, -0.63% shed 4.84 points, 0.2%, to 2,856.98. Ten out of the S&P 500¡¯s 11 sectors fell, with only technology stocks edging higher. The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, -1.04% dropped 10.64 points, or 0.1%, to 7,878.46.

For the week, the S&P 500 is set for a rise of 0.2% and the Nasdaq is on pace to climb 0.8% while the Dow is flat.

The minutes of the Fed¡¯s last meeting, released Wednesday, indicated broad-based support for another interest-rate hike in September, with many officials stating that as long as economic data remain strong, ¡°it would likely soon be appropriate to take another step in removing policy accommodation.¡±

Investors will get another clue into the central bank¡¯s thinking on policy when Powell gives a speech at the Fed¡¯s annual meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyo. Although the speech is unlikely to deviate significantly in tone or message from the minutes, it could provide more clarity into what Powell sees as the biggest potential trouble spots facing the economy going forward.

Ahead of Powell¡¯s speech, Kansas City Federal Reserve President Esther George said that she thought two more interest-rate hikes would be appropriate this year and ¡°several more¡± would likely be needed next year.

See: Here¡¯s how Jackson Hole could impact the dollar, bonds and emerging markets

Market participants will also be weighing the fallout from the recent legal issues surrounding President Donald Trump. On Tuesday, former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was found guilty on eight charges including tax fraud, and the president¡¯s former lawyer Michael Cohen said he violated campaign-finance law at Trump¡¯s direction.

The issues have accelerated whispers about impeachment, and Trump on Thursday said that the stock market would crash in such a scenario. So far, however, there has been little to no equity impact from the political turbulence.

On the data front, initial jobless claims fell slightly last week and hovered near a 49-year low. New claims declined by 2,000 to 210,000 in the seven days from Aug. 12 to Aug. 18. Economists polled by MarketWatch had forecast a 215,000 reading.

New-home sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual 627,000 rate, falling to a 9-month low, the Commerce Department said Thursday.

IHS Markit U.S. manufacturing PMI hit the lowest level in 9 months, with a reading of 54.3 in August from 55.3 in the prior month, while IHS U.S. flash services PMI dropped to 55.2 in August from 56. A reading of at least 50 indicates improving conditions.

What were market analysts saying?

¡°It¡¯s really slow, volumes are down 12% versus a 20-day average. I usually don¡¯t put much credibility into slow markets. At this point a big program trade would likely have an outsized impact on the indices for no reason other than it¡¯s slow,¡± said Mike Antonelli, an equity sales trader at Robert W. Baird & Co.

¡°Look, it¡¯s late August, things are moving around,¡± said Sahak Manuelian, managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities. ¡°I¡¯m not being dismissive of these moves lower but I think it¡¯s important to put it into context, and take a step back,¡± he said, referring to trade tensions and the benchmarks trading near highs amid a solid week of gains thus far.

¡°I think the bias over the summer has been to the positive and the driver of that has been the U.S. economy,¡± said Kim Caughey Forrest, senior analyst and portfolio manager at Fort Pitt Capital Group. Forrest said clarity on trade talks between China and the U.S. North American partners will do a lot to further improving Wall Street optimism.

Read: Stock market likely to undergo vigorous stress test in September

What stocks were in focus?

Sears Holdings Corp. US:SHLD extended losses to slump 5.9% after the retailer said it would close 46 more Kmart and Sears stores as its bricks-and-mortar business model comes under increasing pressure. The stock is down 69% year to date.

Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. BABA, -2.42% reversed earlier gains to slide 3.2% after it reported first-quarter revenue growth of 61%, although this was below expectations.

L Brands Inc. LB, +1.17% sank 11% as the parent of Victoria¡¯s Secret, Bath & Body Works and other brands, late Wednesday reported second-quarter earnings above expectations but cut its profit outlook for the year.

Children¡¯s Place Inc. PLCE, +3.60% shares fell 1.3% even after it reported second-quarter earnings that blew past estimates.

What were other markets doing?

Oil futures US:CLV8 were mostly flat in recent action while gold futures GCZ8, -0.32% settled lower and the ICE U.S. Dollar Index DXY, +0.21% rose after falling for six sessions.

European stocks ended mostly lower, while Asian markets were gained ground except the Hong Kong bourse.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.