On May 22, Marvin Ellison quit his CEO position at J.C. Penney and joined Lowe¡¯s Companies as their new leader. His leadership of J.C. Penney was marred by weak performance, a precipitous drop of the stock price, and a lack of confidence by investors and customers.

There is a search for a new leader under way. Ron Tysoe, lead independent director, is heading the search. (He had served as vice chairman of finance and real estate at Macy¡¯s, formerly Federated Department Stores Inc., from 1990 to 2006.) I am certainly anxious to see the result.

It¡¯s worth noting that the company has not stood still since Ellison left. In order to win back customers, the company has shifted gears and is returning to its former core customer ¨C the middle-aged mom ¨C rather than pursue the millennials Ellison was trying to attract. It sounds like the right move. It was initiated by Mike Robbins, J.C. Penney¡¯s executive VP of supply chain. Robbins is one of three senior executives who are filling the role of CEO, operating as the "Office of the CEO." The other two are Jeff Davis, CFO, and Therace Risch, Chief Digital Officer.

Here are my suggestions for requirements that the new CEO should meet. This individual must:

Be a merchant. The company¡¯s top ranks are void of any merchant. This is a crucial gap that must be filled. The new CEO must be passionate about merchandise and a motivator for the company. As a merchant he must have a feeling for fashion trends. She or he must set fashion ideas for the stores and have the ability to communicate them to all associates. Strong merchant skills will frame the appropriate assortments and define price-points. He must encourage the entire merchant organization to be constantly on the lookout for new ideas. J.C. Penney is one of the largest department store chains and the new CEO must be recognized as a leader¡ªto the company and the industry. He should encourage innovative new designers to present their merchandise.

Be a digital savant. In order to stay competitive, the same leader who possesses merchandise expertise must understand the best omni-channel technologies available as well. This individual must understand how to fulfill orders quickly and accurately. There is a need to innovate the e-offerings to make every sale count.

Be an innovator. Stores cannot stand still; they must be led by a mindset that embraces change and is willing to actively pursue new formats, new dramatic presentations, new services and amenities, and even new pop-up ideas that excite customers. These efforts need promotional support to make customers aware of the transformation that is underway.

Be a customer-centric person. When Hubert Joly joined Best Buy as CEO, he lived in the stores to meet customers and did not concern himself with the immediate needs of the enterprise. His month spent on the firing line gave him insights that were invaluable. J.C. Penney¡¯s future CEO should learn from Joly¡¯s example on how to tackle this new assignment, regardless of background and depth of experience. First-hand engagement with customers, and associates who directly service them, will also send a powerful message about corporate values to the entire organization.

Be concession wise. Certain concessions dominate in a classification. Lids at Macy's is an example. A wise president must chose concessions that support his total merchandise image. The customers appreciate a fully rounded assortment.

Be a visionary. The future vitality of J.C. Penney requires a leader with a vision that will transform the company and move away from the competitive morass it is in at the present time. To see the future, to excite the associates with this vision, and to execute part of that vision every day would create a new, successful company.

J.C. Penney¡¯s stock is cheap. The right leader could prove that there is still plenty of life in this company. After all, there is a legacy to tap: JCP has been long known for home fashion and decor. Colors always matched because of the company¡¯s high standards. Quality was always of the highest. Brands abounded. I look forward to meeting the new CEO of J.C. Penney and hope to see the brand rebound .