track of how much money I have in my account like most people, so I expect what the app and the online banking is telling me I have available to be accurate. It isn't.



Several times now my account has said that it has had way more money than was actually there. Most of the time I catch this problem and eventually my account adjusts and goes back to what it should be ( has taken up to 3 days). However I don't always catch it and I end up spending money I would not have if I had known the actual amount of money in my available balance. I'm lucky that I have not spent more than was actually in my account even after it readjusted though I have gotten very close.



I called Commerce about this problem and was told that basically when you buy something it goes in your pending transactions. Whatever company you bought something from then has 3 days to claim their money allowing your transaction to go from pending to done. If however the company doesn't claim their money within 3 days then Commerce takes that transaction out of your records altogether and deposits the money you spent back into your account's available balance. Despite this the company is free at any time to come back and claim their money for what you bought.



So basically for however long it takes a company to claim your money after 3 days you get to walk around with an account balance that is wrong. Lets take today for example. I made a $40 purchase on the 21st of this month but the company did not claim their money until today the 25th. Due to a problem with my paycheck at work I thought the sudden appearance of the extra $40 was actually my job giving me the money they owed me, not that it had been over 3 days and my pending transaction for my purchase had been taken off my records. I made 3 purchases I would not have if I had known and now have less than $10 in my account. The bank also takes my pending transactions off my records when a company is in the process of claiming their money. They do not do this for all companies but I have noticed for a couple of the online games I play that when I buy in game money for them there will be one day when my pending transaction for that purchase disappears, and for the whole day my account will say I have the amount of money I spent back in my account. The very next day my account will go back to the correct number and my completed transactions will have my online game purchase listed in them.



This is ridiculous the bank should not EVER get rid of your pending transactions since the companies CAN STILL CLAIM YOUR MONEY AFTER 3 DAYS!!! Your pending transactions should also not disappear WHEN YOUR MONEY IS BEING CLAIMED!!! This is not even just a problem with the app this is the bank's stupid policy period! So even if you get on the website for online banking you will still get told the wrong amounts and have pending transactions disappear!



My parents have been faithful customers here for over 20 years and because I had a savings account opened for me as a baby I technically have been too. After all these problems plus bad customer service when I called to find out why my account kept saying I had more money than I did ( I went through over 4 different people all in different departments of the bank before I was finally told all the information about their transactions policies I've listed above) I am completely done and switching to a knew bank as soon as I possibly can!!!!!

I am so sick of this bank's online banking including the app. Supposedly the online banking which is also what their app uses to unction should show you your available balance, current balance, transactions that have gone through, and your pending transactions. The first 2 on that list I find it does show no problems. The last 2 however, anything to do with my transactions have become a nightmare. I use the app to keep