I¡¯m tempted to call today¡¯s event a ¡®marathon¡¯ session, but a world-class athlete could actually have rattled off 26 miles in half the time it took the Treasury committee to quiz Mark Carney and colleagues.

Today¡¯s mega session covered three important issues -- monetary policy, Scottish independence, and the foreign exchange rigging scandal.

More of a slow roast than a grilling.

But we learned quite a bit - here¡¯s the key points.
 The governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, has warned allegations that foreign exchange rates were manipulated are ¡°extremely serious¡±, as he and senior colleague Paul Fisher defend the BoE¡¯s role in the affair.

Carney also told MPs that the Bank would issue a report to the G20 over the issue, underlining its importance.

Ensuring the probity of the foreign exchange rates is ¡°incredibly important¡± for the FX market and ¡°fundamentally important¡± for the credibility of the Bank of England itself, Carney added.
 Carney also revealed that the Bank will appoint a new deputy governor, with responsibility for markets and banking.

Their first job is to ¡°conduct a root-and-branch review of how we conduct market intelligence,¡± he said.
 The Bank¡¯s executive director for markets, Paul Fisher, denied that the Bank had known in 2006 that FX rates were being rigged.

Fisher told the committee that eight-year old minutes, released last week, only showed City traders griping that hedge funds were manipulating the daily FX fix -- not that there was collusion between traders to rig it.
 But MPs expressed deep concern over the Bank¡¯s conduct.

Andrea Leadsom criticised the BoE for not acting years ago, when concerns were first raised. She suggested it had learned little from previous wrong-doing -- prompting Fisher to reply that it¡¯s not the Bank¡¯s job to look for market rigging.
 MPs also demanded to know why an unnamed Bank staff member was suspended last week, but the line manager -- Paul Fisher himself -- had not been. 



Carney said there was no reason at this stage to ¡°escalate¡± the issue, insisting that the staffer suspended was not facing any disciplinary action.

That suspension relates to ¡°the keeping of our rigorous internal control procedures, including around records management and escalation,¡± he said.
 Carney was asked about reports last weekend that the Bank might appoint a senior external figure to handle its inquiry. The governor said he couldn¡¯t say if this is true, as he¡¯s not on the Bank¡¯s oversight committee, but said he believes it makes to enlist such an outsider to lead the inquiry.
 Carney also revealed that the Bank was first alerted on 16 October that it could have been aware of FX manipulation, and acted swiftly by engaging external lawyers.
 Earlier in the session, the governor said there was a ¡°distinct possibility¡± that Royal Bank of Scotland would have to move its HQ from Edinburgh if Scotland votes for independence.

He also spoke about the importance of fiscal union underpinning successful currency unions, pointing to the eurozone crisis.
 And discussing monetary policy, Mark Carney insisted he had ¡®no regrets¡¯ over his forward guidance that interest rates won¡¯t rise until the economy is stronger. 



He also suggested UK interest rates could have risen to 2.5% in three years, and said it would not start to unwind its QE bond-buying programme until interest rates had been raised several times.
 The session also exposed difference between MPC members over the size of the UK¡¯s output gap - Carney said it was probably more than 1.5% of GDP, but Martin Weale said it is likely to be under 1%.
 There¡¯s an earlier summary of the first 2 hours of the session.