A General Motors safety recall has many of its drivers worried, not just because of the problem, but because the company has not yet issued a permanent fix.

In early 2017, GM issued a recall on more than 90,000 vehicles, including 2006-2010 Pontiac Solstice and 2007-2010 Saturn Sky cars. The problem, as Somers resident Bob Issa learned, stems from a faulty airbag module.

Almost four years before the recall, Issa noticed a service light on his dash indicating the front passenger¡¯s side airbag module stopped working.

¡°I would not let anyone ride with me until I had that airbag system fixed,¡± said Issa.

He immediately took it to Scranton Motors for a replacement, typically a $1,100 repair. Scranton Motors offered to cover half of it at the time, out of good faith.

When GM issued the recall in 2017, Issa wanted to request a reimbursement. He says his repair worked properly in the time since.

¡°That¡¯s when I got stories like, ¡®We have no information, we have no parts, when we get parts maybe you can send in your paperwork,¡¯¡± said Issa.

In the recall notice, GM recommends a temporary repair, which is different from what Issa had done. It also says engineers are still working on a permanent fix. Issa said the company would not process his refund until its engineers found a solution.

¡°There¡¯s no visibility for when you can get the money,¡± said Issa. ¡°Even though it¡¯s been four years since I had the repair done.¡±

He submitted his documents to NBC Connecticut Responds, determined to get his money back.

Within a few days, Issa says he received a call from Scranton Motors. Their manager went out of his way to reimburse Issa with the promise that GM would refund his business within six to eight weeks.

A General Motors spokesperson told NBC Connecticut all affected vehicles are being repaired with parts from the original design, and that Issa¡¯s fix should be substantial until further notice. The permanent solution is still in progress.