PITTSBURGH, May 30, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- DICK'S Sporting Goods, Inc. (NYSE: DKS), the largest U.S. based full-line omni-channel sporting goods retailer, today reported sales and earnings results for the first quarter ended May 5, 2018.

The Company reported consolidated net income for the first quarter ended May 5, 2018 of $60.1 million, or $0.59 per diluted share. The Company reported consolidated net income for the first quarter ended April 29, 2017 of $58.2 million, or $0.52 per diluted share.

On a non-GAAP basis, the Company reported consolidated net income for the first quarter ended April 29, 2017 of $60.3 million, or $0.54 per diluted share. First quarter 2017 non-GAAP results excluded costs incurred to convert former The Sports Authority ("TSA") stores. The GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations are included in a table later in the release under the heading "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations."

Net sales for the first quarter of 2018 increased 4.6% to approximately $1.91 billion. Adjusted for the calendar shift due to the 53rd week in 2017, consolidated same store sales decreased 2.5% on a 13-week to 13-week comparable basis. Based on an unshifted calendar, consolidated same store sales for the first quarter decreased 0.9%. Consolidated same store sales were impacted by a continued deceleration in hunt and electronics sales, as well as colder spring weather, which resulted in a delayed start to key outdoor sports and activities. First quarter 2017 consolidated same store sales increased 2.4%.

"Our strong first quarter earnings reflect improved execution against our merchandising strategy, which resulted in higher merchandise margins. Product newness, strength in our private brands and a more refined assortment led to a much healthier business, with fewer promotions and cleaner inventory throughout the quarter. We believe these benefits will continue as we further optimize our assortments," said Edward W. Stack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We are also continuing to see the results of investments in our digital experience, and we will continue to invest as we build the best omni-channel experience for all athletes."

"This is an exciting time for our Company as we focus on driving executional excellence, delivering an improved shopping experience and differentiating ourselves to create a premier omni-channel experience," added Lauren R. Hobart, President of DICK'S Sporting Goods. "We continue to see significant opportunity to drive competitive marketplace advantage and win with our athletes longer-term."

Adjusted for the calendar shift due to the 53rd week in 2017, eCommerce sales for the first quarter of 2018 increased 24%. eCommerce penetration for the first quarter of 2018 was approximately 11% of total net sales, compared to approximately 9% during the first quarter of 2017.

In the first quarter, the Company opened eight new DICK'S Sporting Goods stores. As of May 5, 2018, the Company operated 724 DICK'S Sporting Goods stores in 47 states, with approximately 38.4 million square feet, 94 Golf Galaxy stores in 32 states, with approximately 2.0 million square feet, and 35 Field & Stream stores in 16 states, with approximately 1.7 million square feet.

Store count, square footage and new stores are listed in a table later in the release under the heading "Store Count and Square Footage."

The Company ended the first quarter of 2018 with approximately $105 million in cash and cash equivalents and approximately $280 million in outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility. Over the course of the last 12 months, the Company continued to invest in omni-channel growth, while returning over $446 million to shareholders through share repurchases and quarterly dividends.

Total inventory decreased 3.8% at the end of the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the end of the first quarter of 2017.

On May 17, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized and declared a quarterly dividend in the amount of $0.225 per share on the Company's Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. The dividend is payable in cash on June 29, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 8, 2018.

During the first quarter of 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares of its common stock at an average cost of $32.33 per share, for a total cost of $107.9 million. The Company has approximately $650 million remaining under its authorization that extends through 2021.
 Based on an estimated 101 million diluted shares outstanding, the Company currently anticipates reporting earnings per diluted share in the range of to 3.12, compared to the previous range of to 3.00. The Company's earnings per diluted share guidance is not dependent upon share repurchases beyond the executed through the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The Company reported GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of for the 53 weeks ended .
 Consolidated same store sales are currently expected to be in the range of approximately flat to a low single-digit decline on a 52-week to 52-week comparative basis, compared to a decline of 0.3% in 2017.
 The Company expects to open 19 new DICK'S Sporting Goods stores and relocate four DICK'S Sporting Goods stores in 2018. The Company does not expect to open any new Field & Stream or Golf Galaxy stores in 2018.
 In 2018, the Company anticipates net capital expenditures to be approximately . In 2017, net capital expenditures were .

The Company will host a conference call today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss the first quarter results. Investors will have the opportunity to listen to the earnings conference call over the internet through the Company's website located at . To listen to the live call, please go to the website at least fifteen minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software.

In addition to the webcast, the call can be accessed by dialing (877) 443-5743 (domestic callers) or (412) 902-6617 (international callers) and requesting the "DICK'S Sporting Goods Earnings Call."

For those who cannot listen to the live webcast, it will be archived on the Company's website for approximately 30 days. In addition, a dial-in replay of the call will be available. To listen to the replay, investors should dial (877) 344-7529 (domestic callers) or (412) 317-0088 (international callers) and enter confirmation code 10119905. The dial-in replay will be available for approximately 30 days following the live call.

In addition to reporting the Company's financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), the Company reports certain financial results that differ from what is reported under GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include consolidated non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, which management believes provides investors with useful supplemental information to evaluate the Company's ongoing operations and to compare with past and future periods. Management also uses certain non-GAAP measures internally for forecasting, budgeting, and measuring its operating performance. These measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. The methods used by the Company to calculate its non-GAAP financial measures may differ significantly from methods used by other companies to compute similar measures. As a result, any non-GAAP financial measures presented herein may not be comparable to similar measures provided by other companies. A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are provided below and on the Company's website at investors.DICKS.com.

Forward-Looking Statements Involving Known and Unknown Risks and Uncertainties

This release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Our future performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon by investors as a prediction of actual results. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other things, the Company's future performance, including outlook for earnings and sales in 2018; anticipated store openings and store relocations; capital expenditures; and share repurchases.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: changes in consumer discretionary spending; our eCommerce platform not producing the anticipated benefits within the expected time frame or at all; the streamlining of the Company's vendor base and execution of the Company's new merchandising strategy not producing the anticipated benefits within the expected time frame or at all; the amount that we devote to strategic investments and the timing and success of those investments; the integration of strategic acquisitions being more difficult, time-consuming, or costly than expected; negative reactions to our policies related to the sale of firearms and accessories; vendors continuing to sell or increasingly selling their products directly to customers or through broadened or alternative distribution channels; inventory turn; changes in the competitive market and competition amongst retailers, including an increase in promotional activity; changes in consumer demand or shopping patterns and our ability to identify new trends and have the right trending products in our stores and on our website; changes in existing tax, labor and other laws and regulations, including those changing tax rates and imposing new taxes and surcharges; limitations on the availability of attractive retail store sites; omni-channel growth; unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information; risks relating to our private brand offerings and new retail concepts; website downtime, disruptions or other problems with our eCommerce platform, including interruptions, delays or downtime caused by high volumes of users or transactions, deficiencies in design or implementation, or platform enhancements; disruptions or other problems with our information systems; factors affecting our vendors, including supply chain and currency risks; talent needs and the loss of Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; developments with sports leagues, professional athletes or sports superstars; weather-related disruptions and seasonality of our business; and risks associated with being a controlled company.

For additional information on these and other factors that could affect our actual results, see our risk factors, which may be amended from time to time, set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including our most recent Annual Report filed with the SEC on March 30, 2018. The Company disclaims and does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this press release, except as required by applicable law or regulation. Forward-looking statements included in this release are made as of the date of this release.

Founded in 1948, DICK'S Sporting Goods, Inc. is a leading omni-channel sporting goods retailer offering an extensive assortment of authentic, high-quality sports equipment, apparel, footwear and accessories. As of May 5, 2018, the Company operated more than 720 DICK'S Sporting Goods locations across the United States, serving and inspiring athletes and outdoor enthusiasts to achieve their personal best through a blend of dedicated associates, in-store services and unique specialty shop-in-shops dedicated to Team Sports, Athletic Apparel, Golf, Lodge/Outdoor, Fitness and Footwear.

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA, DICK'S also owns and operates Golf Galaxy and Field & Stream specialty stores, as well as DICK'S Team Sports HQ, an all-in-one youth sports digital platform offering a comprehensive range of services including technology solutions such as online registration and league management services, and mobile apps for scheduling, communications and live scorekeeping; team gear such as uniforms and equipment, fan wear, and access to donations and sponsorships. DICK'S offers its products through a content-rich eCommerce platform that is integrated with its store network and provides customers with the convenience and expertise of a 24-hour storefront. For more information, visit the Press Room or Investor Relations pages at dicks.com.

The stores that opened during the first quarter of 2018 are as follows:

The following represents a reconciliation of beginning and ending stores and square footage for the periods indicated:

The following table represents a reconciliation of the Company's gross capital expenditures to its capital expenditures, net of tenant allowances.