The following is a diversion from typical "Prison Complex" posts, but it certainly falls within Forbes' wheelhouse. Plus, it's fascinating. Don't fret: we'll be back to dissecting U.S. prison spending soon. -- Matt Stroud

In case you haven¡¯t been following along, Wall Street hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has been saying very publicly since December that Herbalife, the multi-billion dollar nutritional supplement multi-level marketing company (MLM), is a sham. Ackman is so convinced of Herbalife¡¯s fraudulence that he¡¯s placed a billion-dollar Wall Street bet that the company¡¯s dishonest business practices will eventually kill it.

To bolster his public outrage, Ackman has repeatedly invited the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to conduct an investigation into the company¡¯s inner workings. He¡¯s not alone on that front. California congresswoman Linda Sanchez made a similar call recently. New York City Councilwoman Julissa Ferreras did the same. So did the National Consumers League in March. And while FTC representatives have allegedly said they find the company's business practices "disturbing" -- and rumors continue to swirl about an Herbalife probe -- an official investigation has yet to be launched.

But if the U.S.¡¯s historical approach to MLMs is any indication, they may have to wait a long time.

The landmark MLM case in the U.S. occurred way back in 1975. At that time, the FTC went after Amway for many of the same reasons Ackman and others want the FTC to go after Herbalife today.

Amway is a Michigan-based multi-level marketing company (MLM). It¡¯s international ¡ª one of the first MLMs to become a household name in the US and one of the first to expand successfully abroad. It¡¯s got a vast product line (including home and personal care products, electronics, jewelry, even insurance and dietary supplements) but its business model is indistinguishable from MLMs all over the world: its non-employee distributors are paid small commissions to sell products and recruit as many new distributors as possible.

While the eventual ruling in the 1979 Amway case didn¡¯t make Amway look very good, it also shielded other MLMs from prosecution.

As the FTC saw it, Amway had two main problems. First, its distributors weren¡¯t really selling anything. Amway¡¯s distributors would receive a percentage of what they sold, a bonus percentage for what their recruits sold, another bonus percentage of what their recruits¡¯ recruits sold, and so on. But they could only maximize and maintain those percentages by remaining ¡°active¡± ¡ª by selling a certain amount of product every month. So they took the easy way out: instead of selling products, distributors would just buy the minimum number of products every month and stash it somewhere.

Second, Amway made unprovable claims about distributors¡¯ income. The FTC decision ¡ª a 121-page document that describes years of arguments and questions about Amway¡¯s sales practices ¡ª walks readers through a litany of Amway-approved pitch lines: ¡°What are some of your dreams?¡± ¡°Do you want a new car, a new house, college education for your children?¡± ¡°What kind [of car] would you like?¡± And on and on, with the eventual kicker: ¡°You can realize the achievement of your dreams through the Amway Sales and Marketing Plan.¡±

In 1979, the FTC didn¡¯t shut Amway down. Instead, it wagged a finger at the company and set three future guidelines for operating an MLM legally.

The hypothetical profits rule is fairly straightforward: MLMs now must display or make available their distributors¡¯ average earnings. This is why Herbalife releases a ¡°Statement Of Average Gross Compensation¡± online and why the first 20 or so pages of Amway¡¯s ¡°Business Reference Guide¡± are affixed with a paragraph of fine print indicating its distributors make $2,424 per year on average. (The FTC fined Amway $100,000 for flubbing this in 1986.)

The 70 percent rule is a little trickier: according to the FTC ruling, it means that every MLM distributor must sell ¡°at least 70 percent of the total amount of products he bought during a given month¡± at wholesale or retail price. At least in theory, that means no more hoarding detergent in the garage. But who keeps track of the percentage? And is 70 percent a hard-and-fast number? Are distributors who sell 67 percent of their products at retail price automatically pyramid schemers? The FTC ruling doesn¡¯t clarify.

The ¡°10 customer¡± rule is similarly tricky: it states that distributors ¡°must make not less than one sale at retail to each of ten different customers that month.¡± But, again, who¡¯s keeping track? And what if a distributor only has seven customers?

So MLMs were left to make their own interpretations.

A trial expert in various pyramid scheme cases during his extensive career, Dr. William Keep is also dean of the School of Business at The College of New Jersey. He¡¯s written knowledgeably about Herbalife for the financial website Seeking Alpha and he¡¯s not shy about his opinion that the FTC needs to improve MLM regulations in the US.

Keep characterized the Amway FTC ruling as a landmark. But it resulted in ¡°lack of clarity in the law,¡± he says. No subsequent legislation has done much to make things clearer.

Keep points to a baffling 2004 FTC Staff Advisory Opinion released to the public. It clarifies the 70 percent rule by essentially dismissing it: ¡°[T]he amount of internal consumption in any multi-level compensation business does not determine whether or not the FTC will consider the plan a pyramid scheme,¡± it reads.

That opinion ¡°actually made things worse,¡± Keep wrote in an email.

The result is that ¡°even relatively straightforward cases can drag on for years,¡± Keep wrote. And because of that, the FTC is overly cautious about filing charges against any MLM that¡¯s not a blatant scam. ¡°The FTC tends to pick only very easy cases,¡± Keep says.

Despite this, Herbalife is apparently taking the threat of an FTC investigation seriously. The company recently released the results of a Nielsen survey it commissioned; though representatives from Herbalife and Nielsen repeatedly refused my requests to view the survey¡¯s questions and methodology, Herbalife nonetheless claims the survey verifies that millions of Americans use the company¡¯s nutritional supplements and that it doesn¡¯t operate as an illegal pyramid scheme.

In a press release, Ackman fired back, noting that the company¡¯s ¡°unreliable and incomplete¡± survey goes against a 1986 agreement between the State of California and the company* requiring it to ¡°verify and document¡± its retail sales. Herbalife has not yet responded to the accusation.

¡°Lawyers don¡¯t like to lose,¡± says Bill Keep ¡ª whether they¡¯re working for the FTC or a billion-dollar MLM. And while the FTC has thousands of MLMs to think about, Herbalife¡¯s revenues are about $4 billion annually, so they¡¯ve got money to spend on lawyers.

MLM prosecutions in the US are thus in a stalemate.

¡°It would take a major event for [the FTC] to go after Herbalife," Keep says. "It's not impossible, but it's not probable at this point."

Follow me on Twitter @ssttrroouudd, where I post frequent links to fascinating stories such as this one. If you want to chat directly, I'm at stroudjournalism [at] gmail.com

* A previous version of this story indicated the 1986 agreement was between the FTC and Herbalife. I regret the error.