A rally that¡¯s sent oil prices to nearly 2-year highs could trim global growth and contribute to inflation, if sustained.

But while higher prices would be a symptom of a maturing economic cycle, they¡¯re unlikely to presage a sharp slowdown, barring an unforeseen supply shock, said Gabriel Sterne, head of global macro research at Oxford Economics, in a Tuesday note.

Oil futures were sharply lower Tuesday, but the U.S. benchmark, West Texas Intermediate crude US:CLZ7 remains up more than 2% in the month to date and 3.4% in 2017. Brent UK:LCOF8 the global benchmark, is hanging on to a 0.8% November rise but is up 8.9% so far this year. Both grades last week hit highs last seen in June 2015, boosted by expectations major oil-producing countries will extend an agreement to restrain consumption and political and diplomatic turmoil in the Middle East.

Read: Should oil really be trading above $60 a barrel?

Oxford Economics examined what would happen if Brent remained at $65 a barrel for two years¡ª$10 above the firm¡¯s baseline expectation¡ªand then returned to the baseline. The model suggested that, ¡±other things equal,¡± world gross domestic product would grow 2.6% in 2018 compared with the firm¡¯s baseline of 2.8%, with the peak impact coming in the final quarter of 2019, knocking 0.3 percentage point off growth. It would also boost global inflation by 0.6 percentage point in the final quarter of 2018 (see chart below).

Sterne cautioned, however, that the impact probably represents ¡°an upper bound.¡± He noted the disappointing performance of the global economy despite a plunge in oil prices that took crude from more than $100 a barrel in mid-2014 to less than $30 by early 2016. Despite lower oil prices, the International Monetary Fund was too optimistic about global growth, with a forecast error of 0.6 percentage point in 2015-2016 (see chart below).

Sterne wasn¡¯t just beating up on the IMF. Oxford Economics had run counterfactual simulations in 2014, using bearish oil price forecasts. Their simulation for 2015 was for cheap oil to lift global consumption growth to 3.1%, a forecast that was 0.7 percentage point too high.

Sterne said a number of factors explain why the oil price plunge didn¡¯t immediately bolster growth in 2015-2016:

Read from the archives: Here¡¯s why oil rout is hurting the global economy instead of helping

All in all, the experience ¡°reminds us to be circumspect about interpreting simulation results,¡± Sterne wrote.

Not all the factors that dampened the benefits of cheaper oil will be mirrored in reverse, ¡°so higher oil will slow the global economy,¡± he said. ¡°But to the extent that higher oil prices are associated with stronger global demand, they may be associated with a milder downturn than model predictions indicate.¡±

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.