RALEIGH, N.C. (WNCN) - This morning is starting off chilly with temperatures in the 30s and 40s. The morning starts off sunny, but clouds will be on the increase through the day. Rain ramps up overnight and into Monday.

By this afternoon, clouds will increase in advance of our next weather maker. A front to our south will move toward our coast and develop a low pressure system along it by Sunday night. This will spread a few showers over central North Carolina Sunday night. On Monday, we will be between that system just off our coast, and another front in the mid-Mississippi valley. This will leave us with clouds and a couple of showers being possible on Monday. That front, to our west, will move to central North Carolina on Tuesday; so some scattered showers and even a PM storm will be possible on Tuesday.

Behind that cold front, skies will be clearing early Wednesday, and dry weather will be around until another cold front moves toward central North Carolina on Friday. Showers will be likely on Friday, and that front will move east of us next Saturday. Much cooler air will move in for next weekend as highs will be the 50s and lows will drop into the 30s.

Sunday will be sunny in morning with increasing clouds during the afternoon. The high will be 64, winds will be east 5 to 10 mph.

Sunday Night will be cloudy with scattered showers possible. The overnight low will be 54, winds will be east-northeast 5 to 8 mph. The rain risk will be 50 percent.

Monday will be cloudy with a couple showers possible. The high will be 66, winds will be east-northeast around 5 mph. The rain risk will be 30 percent.

Tuesday will be mostly cloudy with scattered showers and a PM storm possible. The high will be 76, after a morning low of 60. The rain risk will be 50 percent.

Wednesday will become sunny and cooler. The high will be 68, after a morning low of 55.

Thursday will be partly cloudy. The high will be 68, after a morning low of 46.

Friday will be mainly cloudy with scattered showers and a late day isolated storm possible. The high will be 67, after a morning low of 50. The rain risk will be 50 percent.

Saturday will have early showers possible, then clearing skies will move in. The day will be partly sunny. The high will be 57, after a morning low of 42. The rain risk will be 0.

Next Sunday will be sunny with a high of 54, after a morning low of 34.

Follow the CBS 17 Storm Team on social media for the latest weather updates:

This forecast was prepared by the CBS 17 Storm Team and is based on the latest information available and years of weather forecasting in North Carolina. It was not produced by a computer like many forecasts you find on the web, social media and smart phone apps.