Welcome to The Fallen Renegades Recruitment Post



We are rebuilding our Guild we are recruiting for our guild on Lightbringer some may or may not relate to this what we are about. However before you consider paying to transfer/faction change to be part of our core raiding team/guild бн please know that we are a progression raiding guild who want to have fun and do the end game content. We are a laid back guild just looking for people who don't mind helping out from time to time when not raiding, who are not looking to rush through everything in a hurry or who cares about being in a top #1 guild on a server, who will have patience, committed to our raiding schedule, and are willing to step up when need to. We are not hardcore; however you are expected to do to perform as a Raider if that is what you are coming here for. 



Most important part is our Raiding Schedule:



Tue/Wed 7p иC 9p PST (we are trying to accommodate 3 different time zones)

Also an ilvl of 640+ is required to be on our current tier raid team. 



We are a progression raiding guild who recognizes that there are real life setbacks that do occur in our lives. We excuse the fact maybe you have a kids function to attend, your are sick, work calls, Military Life calls, or something might hinder you from raiding that day we want you to know we will not punish you and bench you next time you raid just because you missed. We do expect you to inform us on our website the why and when of not making a raid. 



We are a guild that looks to construct it in a manner that creates an environment that generates long friendships and a guild home. If you are one of us, you probably have been doing Hardcore for some time and decided it is not worth the hassle of missing out on life and missing out on being part of a guild that feels like a home instead of a institutional, hard driven, high turnover, and always stressful guild as that is just what a Hardcore guild is.



The Fallen Renegades is a place where you can make friends and keep them. The Fallen Renegades we hope you will have the feel of true security throughout your tem with the guild. Should you be someone that is a Veteran of this game, you know that causal guilds usually are awful at raiding. Hardcore guilds will bench you/drop you from team if someone is just a percent or two better than you, but we are not a in either of these two categories we are a rare find. We have a great raiding team in place and looking to do all game content who just want to have FUN getting there. It might take a little bit longer as we are not looking to rush through everything we are looking to make good memories through the easy and hard times that way when you look back you can recall them later in life and not look back if you only raid for gear and glory, its short lived and resets every xpack with no memories. If you truly understand what we are about you will fit in just fine.



So if you are a exceptional player that:



Joined a Hardcore guild and tired of the fast passed, never feeling secure, stressful type play style and ready for a change.



Want to make friends you can count and depend on.



Wants leadership and guild mates that want a social guild and also can raid all levels of content (not a very easy thing to do, but we have and will continue to do so!)



Then look no further!



We currently are looking for a the following core raiding openings:



All Classes: 2 Tanks, Heals, Ranged DPS 



Raid Leader Position also open



Our current qualifications are:



Highmaul -- 6/7N and 6/7H

Balckrock Foundry -- 5/11N



Other quick things about our raiding:



We use EPGP for our loot system



We take your commitment to the 2 days serious we hope you do to.



We expect you to be ready to raid including being prepared for the raid.



If you need something like flasks, enchants, and what not all you have to do is ask if we can provide we will, but understand it is not our responsibility. 



We will demote/bench you if you refuse to improve to be your best and if you miss out on the raid days on a constant bases.



Should you want to be a part of our guild or have questions you can contact me Yesabella on my battlenet tag at Poohbear41#1912. 



our website: http://fallenrenegades.guildlaunch.com/