WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) ¡ª The U.S. economy has been adding jobs at a blistering pace over the past six years, but we still aren¡¯t running out of people who¡¯d like to have a job.

In the process of adding 11.5 million jobs since the depths of the Great Recession, growth in new jobs has slowed by about a third in the past six months, leading a lot of people to speculate that we¡¯re nearing full employment. The unemployment rate ticked up to 5% in September, another sign that the Federal Reserve has pushed the economy just about as far as it can go.

It¡¯s time for the Fed to declare victory and raise interest rates, they say. The September jobs report shows that the economy is at full employment and that the Fed needs to raise interest rates to keep inflation at bay.

Naturally, some people disagree, arguing that we¡¯re still a long way from full employment, because people keep coming out of the woodwork to join the labor force.

In fact, the labor force is expanding at the fastest pace since 2000, rising by 3 million in the past year, about three times as fast as the working-age population is growing.

The reason the unemployment rate has ticked up recently is that more people are beginning to look for jobs again. Would-be workers are joining the labor force faster than the economy can create jobs.

That¡¯s not a sign of overheating. It¡¯s a sign that the demand for labor still hasn¡¯t caught up with the supply. That¡¯s a sign that policy is working. At the same time, inflation is not surging. Wages are rising only modestly.

There are a lot of numbers in the monthly jobs report, but one number that doesn¡¯t get enough attention is the available labor supply, the number of people who aren¡¯t working but want to.

It¡¯s a measurement of the amount of slack in the jobs market. It¡¯s calculated by taking the number of unemployed people (who are out of work and actively looking) and adding the number of ¡°shadow¡± unemployed. Those are people who aren¡¯t in the labor force (because they aren¡¯t working or actively looking for a job) but who say they¡¯d like to work.

The available workforce peaked at 21.4 million in 2009. In September, the available labor force was down to 14 million. A lot of slack has been taken up. But in the past year, the amount of slack in the jobs market has actually been rising, despite the creation of 2.4 million jobs.

It seems that the more jobs we create, the more hope we give to people who have been on the sidelines of the economy since the Great Recession. That is a good thing.

Fed policy makers may well decide to raise rates in December. But they should not do it because they think we¡¯ve achieved ¡°full employment.¡± We haven¡¯t. There are 14 million people who¡¯d like a chance to earn their living.