LONDON: Copper traders are the most bullish in almost 11 months on mounting speculation central banks will do more to bolster growth, strengthening demand for metals. Twenty-one analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect prices to gain next week and five were bearish.A further four were neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since October 14. Hedge funds are betting on higher prices for the first time since May and stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the LME, the largest metals bourse, dropped to the lowest level in almost four years.Commodities, which entered a bull market last month, may rise another 10%, Jeffrey Currie, the head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group , said in an interview. Copper rose 4.8% to $7,967 a tonne this year on the LME after a 21% slump last year. Prices tripled as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 through June 2011.The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 10% since the start of January and the Standard & Poor¡¯s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 4.8%. Treasuries returned 2.1%, a Bank of America Corp index shows.Speculators held a net-long position , or bet on higher prices, of 3,260 futures and options as of August 28, US Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. They had wagered on price declines for the previous 14 weeks. Inventories tracked by the LME plunged 42% this year, sliding to 213,225 tonne on last Thursday, the lowest since October 2008.They were at 215,950 tonne on Friday, bourse data show. Prices will advance to $9,000 by the end of this year, Goldman¡¯s Currie said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Singapore. The bank told investors to increase commodities holdings in June and a month later forecast a 27% gain in 12 months.Bernanke said at the Kansas City Fed¡¯s annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming that ¡°nontraditional policies¡± shouldn¡¯t be ruled out to boost growth and reduce unemployment. Policy makers next meet September 12-13. Barclays expects demand to outpace supply in the first half of next year before a glut emerges in the second half as output climbs and consumption growth weakens. China¡¯s government lowered its 2012 industrial output growth target to 10% on September 5 from a December goal of 11%. The nation¡¯s economy has slowed for six quarters.It consumes about 40% of all copper, Europe accounts for 18% and North America 11%, Barclays estimates . Central bank action may not be enough to stave off slowing global growth that will crimp demand for commodities including copper, according to James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.