This weekend marks the last chance most U.S. consumers will have to get health insurance coverage this year.

Those who don¡¯t purchase coverage will face steep fines next year for not complying with the Affordable Care Act unless they qualify for an exemption.

Once Sunday¡¯s open enrollment deadline has passed, shoppers will no longer be able to purchase coverage for the rest of the year through the federal and state-run health insurance exchanges or directly from health insurance companies or brokers unless there are mitigating circumstances that qualify for a special enrollment period.

Special enrollments will be limited to very specific circumstances, such as losing health coverage during the year, experiencing a change in income that affects qualifications for coverage, moving to a new state, becoming a U.S. citizen, getting married, having a child or turning 26 years old and becoming ineligible to stay on a parent¡¯s health insurance plan. Most consumers buying individual and family coverage are enrolling online by going to the federal exchange¡¯s website, HealthCare.gov. For those needing face-to-face help understanding their coverage options or enrolling, community health and social services groups such as the EnrollSA coalition are providing assistance at various locations around San Antonio.

¡°Just like the previous two years, we¡¯re expecting a big push of folks who are going to be coming in as the deadline approaches,¡± said Joe Ibarra, Enroll America¡¯s South Texas regional director. Enroll America is a coalition of public and private health advocacy organizations, among others, working to help sign people up for coverage.

¡°We always encourage folks to come and at least explore their options. Don¡¯t rely on what they¡¯ve heard secondhand from a friend or neighbor or what they¡¯re hearing from TV or radio,¡± he said.

Federal marketplace navigators working with the Catholic nonprofit Daughters of Charity Services of San Antonio have assisted more than 5,000 people since open enrollment began Nov. 1, program manager Magdalena Alvarado said. That includes consumers who called asking questions or seeking information, but who haven¡¯t officially enrolled.

¡°I would say, just generally speaking, we get over 100 enrollments every day with all of the navigators,¡± Alvarado said.

Nearly 104,000 consumers in the San Antonio market had chosen or been automatically re-enrolled in 2016 health coverage plans as of Jan. 16 ¡ª an improvement from the level of activity seen last year. But that figure is still well below the 297,742 uninsured Bexar County residents identified by the U.S. Census Bureau¡¯s 2014 American Community Survey One-Year Estimates released in September.

Fear of the penalties to be imposed next year on consumers who don¡¯t comply with the Affordable Care Act¡¯s health insurance mandate is driving some of that traffic.

Those shunning coverage this year will have to pay penalties to the IRS in 2017 amounting to 2.5 percent of their annual household income or $695 per adult and $347.50 per child - whichever is greater - unless they qualify for an exemption.

Concern about the penalties prompted Alma Sanchez, 39, of Bexar County, to stop by Daughters of Charity Services¡¯ DePaul Family Center on Friday to investigate her options. Speaking through a translator, Sanchez noted her four children are covered through Medicaid while she and her husband are uninsured. She has a temporary permit allowing her to work legally in the United States while her application for legal residency is pending.

After meeting with a navigator Friday, Sanchez learned she will be exempt from the penalties for being uninsured this year because she falls in the so-called ¡°Medicaid gap¡± - meaning her household income is too high to qualify her for Medicaid benefits, but too low for her to get federal subsidies to buy health insurance through the government-run exchange. Texas is one of the states that has not expanded Medicaid eligibility requirements.

Sanchez expressed relief that she won¡¯t be penalized and said she now has peace of mind. ¡°I am happy,¡± she said.

Single mother Helen Gonzalez, 49, of San Antonio, recently discontinued her job-based health insurance plan because she found her share of the costs unaffordable. However, she will have to pay a penalty if she goes without coverage this year.

Gonzalez stopped by DePaul Family Center to price her coverage options through the federal exchange and learned she and her 18-year-old daughter qualify for tax credits totaling only $40 a month - meaning Gonzalez will have to pay most of the premium for any health insurance plan she buys. The lowest monthly premium available to them was $339.21, navigators said.

Gonzalez said she feels stuck, having to make a choice between paying high health insurance premiums or hefty penalties for not having coverage.

¡°Now I¡¯m really getting stressed out,¡± she said with a laugh after looking at her options Friday. ¡°I¡¯m really undecided. I have to think, because I have an 18-year-old ... I have to think about her education, too. But I do want her covered. Because I¡¯m thinking more about her than me.

¡°They¡¯re making it harder if you don¡¯t have it (insurance) ... The penalty you¡¯re going to pay at the end of the year. And that¡¯s another craziness, I think,¡± she said.

A Congressional Budget Office report released Monday estimated that about 13 million people nationwide will likely purchase health policies through the Affordable Care Act this year. That number, lower than predictions made previously, is based on updated enrollment figures extending through last month.

Around 8.8 million consumers across the nation had signed up or been automatically renewed for 2016 health coverage through the federal exchange¡¯s HealthCare.gov enrollment platform as of Jan. 16, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.