The Obama administration is making a renewed push to get young adults covered on health-insurance marketplaces, both for their own good and for the stability of marketplaces that have attracted sicker, costlier customers than expected under the Affordable Care Act.

Experts applaud the plans for beefed-up outreach before the health-care law¡¯s 2017 sign-up begins on Nov. 1. But such efforts will face a number of challenges, they note.

To start with, the transition from children¡¯s Medicaid to adult coverage can be bumpy. Nineteen is the age at which lower-income Americans are generally no longer eligible to be covered as children by Medicaid or the Children¡¯s Health Insurance Program. Options for such youths include moving to adult Medicaid in the 31 states that have expanded coverage to 138 percent of the federal poverty level (about $16,000) or buying a subsidized plan on an ACA marketplace.

¡°I¡¯m sure there are states that do transitions really well, but I can¡¯t point to one,¡± said Shelby Gonzales, a senior health-policy analyst who focuses on enrollment and eligibility issues for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. ¡°In general, a lot of states are struggling when [young adults are] being terminated from Medicaid.¡±

Clunky computer systems and uninformative coverage notices may contribute to young people dropping coverage at age 19. Young adults sometimes receive a notice explaining that they are no longer eligible for Medicaid under a particular section of that law but do not get information about other options. Some states don¡¯t have a routine process to check whether a 19-year-old is eligible for another category of Medicaid after aging out of child coverage.

In other cases, young adults may get sent to the marketplace for coverage but wind up filling out all the application details from scratch even though their Medicaid files already have the information.

And when applying for a marketplace plan, young people also may run into another snag: difficulty proving their identity, the first step in the enrollment process. With little or no credit history, they may have to verify their identity by phone or submit documentation that proves they are who they say they are. Such frustrations can prompt them to drop out of the process.

¡°Any of these are points where you might lose someone,¡± Gonzales said.

Since the ACA¡¯s passage, the uninsured rate among Americans ages 19 to 25 has fallen by more than 50 percent, according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. But young adults are still more likely than other adults to be without health insurance.

The Obama administration has acknowledged the difficulty in moving them from Medicaid or their parents¡¯ policies to other coverage. In 2014, the uninsured rate for those age 19 jumped nearly seven percentage points, according to census data, while the rate for 26-year-olds increased four percentage points as they aged off their parents¡¯ plans.

New restrictions on special enrollment periods ¡ª for individuals who have experienced certain life events outside the regular enrollment window ¡ª may also pose a particular problem for young people, experts say.

Insurers complained that people were using a special enrollment period to sign up for coverage just to receive medical treatment, then dropping coverage after they got that care. Tightened rules now will require that people document that they really did experience one of the qualifying events, potentially affecting young adults disproportionately. In addition to marriage and childbirth, individuals in their 20s relocate at twice the rate of older adults, according to the advocacy organization Young Invincibles.

¡°I think the new documentation requirements regarding [special enrollment periods] could really backfire, and the result could be different than the administration intends,¡± said Sabrina Corlette, research professor at the Georgetown University Center on Health Insurance Reforms.

One of the challenges of insuring young adults is convincing them that they need coverage. Many young adults are relatively healthy, and when money is tight, insurance may seem like a luxury they can forgo. Young Invincibles is trying to get the word out that marketplace coverage can be affordable given premium subsidies, said Erin Hemlin, its national director of training and consumer education.

The group also highlights the preventive-care benefits that are available in all marketplace plans at no charge ¡ª with savings in the monthly cost of birth-control pills being a particular sign-up plus for young women, according to Corlette. Health-insurance counselors have seen birth control be ¡°the number one selling point,¡± she said.

Kaiser Health News is a national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.