Pound sterling has plummeted against almost all major world currencies after the Bank of England voted to raise interest rates.

The bank's monetary policy committee doubled the base rate from 0.25% to 0.5%.

Charts show how sterling fell from being worth 1.14 at 3am to 1.12 at midday today as financial markets reacted.

And 1 fell from $1.32.8 to $1.31 over the same time period.

The pound was also down against many other major currencies including the Canadian and Australian dollars, the Japanese yen and the Chinese juan.

It comes after policymakers on the nine-strong monetary policy committee (MPC) voted 7-2 in favour of the quarter point rise, which marks the first rates increase since July 2007.

The move comes as the bank looks to dampen Brexit-fuelled inflation, which it predicts will now peak at around 3.2% this autumn.

The bank's quarterly inflation report also suggested two more rate hikes are likely over the next three years to return inflation back to its 2% target, which could see rates hit 1% by the end of 2020.

The milestone rate hike comes as the bank cut its forecast for growth to 1.6% for 2017 from the 1.7% previously predicted, but held forecasts at 1.6% for 2018 and 1.7% for 2019.

Millions of borrowers on variable rate deals will be impacted by the rates decision, which will add around 15 a month to the cost of the average mortgage, while it will offer some relief to savers hit by surging inflation and negligible returns.

But a quarter point rise will only reverse the emergency cut seen in the aftermath of the Brexit vote shock in 2016 as the bank sought to head off turmoil in the economy.

And the bank said the impact on mortgage borrowers would be modest and gradual, with around 60% on fixed rate deals.

Experts estimate that eight million Britons have never seen interest rates rise in their adult lives, with borrowing costs having languished at rock-bottom lows since the financial crisis.

There are fears over the timing of the cut, given the uncertainty amid Brexit negotiations and as Britons are being squeezed by paltry wage growth and sharply rising inflation.

The bank said the majority of policymakers who voted for the rise felt they could no longer tolerate above-target inflation despite Brexit uncertainty, with signs that other pressures were also building.

Oil prices in particular have risen sharply in recent months.

But for the two MPC members who voted to hold rates at 0.25%, Sir Jon Cunliffe and Sir Dave Ramsden, there were doubts over these domestic inflation pressures and fears over muted wage growth.

Micheal Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets, said further hikes are likely in the future: "The pound and gilt yields slid sharply on the back of the removal of the line that interest rates may have to rise faster than markets currently expect.

"The removal of this line suggests that any further hikes are likely to come much further out into 2018.

"This is about as much as a dovish hike as you can get. It¡¯s now on to the inflation report to put some flesh on the bones.¡±

David Lamb, head of dealing at FEXCO Corporate Payments, added: "Despite voting for a rise, the bank¡¯s rate-setters remain deeply worried about the lingering threats to Britain¡¯s economy and are willing to tolerate above target inflation for an extended period.

¡°Taken together, these factors mean the Bank will be in no hurry to hike rates further."