Mortgage insurance protects the lender from loss in the event of default. Mortgage insurance is typically required for loans with down payments of less than 20%, but the rules are dependent on the type of mortgage loan you hold.

loans ÿ The guarantees a portion of your loan against loss and provides lenders with options to offer more favorable financing terms to qualified applicants. The guarantee coverage is paid up front or financed with your loan and will be required to remain in force for the life of the loan.

/ loans ÿ The Rural Housing Service ( ) program assists approved lenders to provide low- and moderate-income households an opportunity to own modest, decent dwellings as a primary residence in eligible rural areas. The imposes an annual fee not to exceed 0.5% of the average annual scheduled unpaid principal balance of the loan for the life of the loan. The annual fee allows the agency to reduce the upfront guarantee portion. The annual fee will be required for the life of the loan. annual fees are paid on an annual deferred basis, which means the first annual premium will be paid after the loan has been active for 12 months.

loans ÿ An loan is a mortgage loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration. insurance enables lenders to offer more attractive interest rates with less stringent and more flexible qualification requirements. The is an agency within the US Department of Housing and Urban Development ( ). Depending upon the loan amount, term and loan-to-value ratio, premiums may be required for the life of the loan, or there may be specific minimum term for premium payment, before the premium collection can be discontinued.

To learn whether your loan is eligible for premium cancellation, please contact Customer Service at 800-295-5744. Representatives are available Monday through Friday from 8:30 to 7 .

Borrower-paid private mortgage insurance ( ) ÿ is required on conventional loans when a borrower doesn't have the standard 20% down payment amount when purchasing a home. can be discontinued when certain requirements are met.

Lender-paid private mortgage insurance ( ) ÿ is another option when a borrower doesn't have the standard 20% down payment amount when purchasing a home. The mortgage insurance is paid either up front or with a higher interest rate, and then the mortgage lender pays for your mortgage insurance. With , the private mortgage insurance terminates only when the mortgage is refinanced, paid off, or otherwise terminated.