WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) ¡ª After the jobs report was released last week, there was a lot of chatter in the market about how to view it through the eyes of Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen.

By Wednesday, we¡¯ll know. Yellen¡¯s appearance before the Joint Economic Committee will be the highlight of the post jobs-report slate of economic data and speeches for the week. She¡¯ll also go before the Senate Budget Committee on Thursday.

Last May, the last time the Joint Economic Committee brought a Fed chief to its doors, Ben Bernanke set off a bit of a bomb in the markets, saying during a question-and-answer session that he thought the taper of the bond-purchase program could start ¡°in the next few meetings.¡±

It turned out, Bernanke was a bit premature, as the Fed¡¯s taper only started last December, not in August. But bond yields took off after the comment, made in response to questioning from Rep. Kevin Brady of Texas. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages haven¡¯t been south of 4% since.

Brady, the chairman of the committee, will be asking questions again ¡ª and he talked with MarketWatch about what he would like to know.

¡°This is her first appearance before the committee so we¡¯re looking forward to having her,¡± he said in a phone interview. While saying that the questioning will be ¡°pretty basic,¡± it turns out the Texas Republican has some pretty specific questions.

The taper that was of such importance last year is by now basically an after-thought, with expectations the program of buying Treasury- and mortgage-backed securities will wind down by October or December.

¡°Now they are only serving four desserts after dinner instead of seven,¡± Brady joked. ¡°They have a long way to go, but they are starting a slow march to normalization.¡±

Even so, Brady would like to get more clarity on the pace of bond reductions ¡ª it¡¯s been a $10 billion reduction at every meeting since December ¡ª and what could throw them off course or get them to accelerate.

The biggest question in markets is when the Fed will start lifting interest rates, and how high rates will go once that starts happening. Futures contracts are pricing in June of 2015 for the first hike.

¡°I would hope they begin the process sooner rather than later,¡± Brady said. ¡°I am concerned the Fed will look to delay normalization rather than move it forward.¡±

Some of his more specific questions will include what guidelines the Fed will use to determine whether to hike interest rates now that the central bank junked previous guidance that tied consideration to the jobless rate falling below 6.5%.

See the evolution of the Fed¡¯s forward guidance

He also picked up on comments Yellen made that full employment is when the unemployment rate is between 5.2% and 5.6%. ¡°Is that the new normal for full employment,¡± Brady says he¡¯ll ask.

The congressman added that he would like to know how the Fed will react if the economy does accelerate ¡ª whether for instance it will increase reserve requirements or pay greater interest on commercial bank reserves. And he wants to know how the central bank will reduce its over $4 trillion balance sheet. ¡°It is going to take years,¡± Brady said.

The jobless claims data on Thursday, and Friday¡¯s job openings report for March, also will offer insights on the labor market ¡ª and therefore interest rates, since the Fed has tied lifting rates to improvements in the jobs market. Yellen frequently says a recovery in components of the job-openings report are needed to confirm the labor market is back to health.

Bob Baur, chief global economist at Principal Global Investors, said the jobs data both from the Labor Department and ADP released last week were strong. ¡°There was broad-based strength throughout. There were big gains in construction and manufacturing, and March manufacturing was revised up.¡±

Policy makers at the central bank may be coming around to a more positive view. ¡°If you read between the lines of the [Federal Open Market Committee] statement, they¡¯re gaining a little more confidence in the recovery,¡± Baur said.

The job-openings data have shown a gradually improving hiring and quits rate. The latter is important because it shows workers are confident enough to quit one job to pursue another. ¡°It¡¯s below what one would think five years into the recovery but heading in the right direction,¡± he said.

Baur is of the view that while the economy is looking up, corporate profit margins may not be, with less slack in the labor market and the potential for income growth. He expects capital spending to increase, though he notes companies of late have been more interested in mergers and acquisitions.

Tuesday¡¯s data on the March trade gap may lead many to upward revisions to the paltry 0.1% growth in gross domestic product in the first quarter.

Baur said the trade data that was estimated in the GDP report doesn¡¯t make sense with what¡¯s going on in the rest of the economy.