HONG KONG (Nikkei Markets) -- Hong Kong shares headed for a fifth day lower on Monday, as Chinese companies listed in the city remained under pressure amid concerns over the impact of ongoing Sino-American trade tensions.

The Hang Seng Index edged 0.1% lower to 24,701.05 by noon after rising as high as 24,955.79 earlier. It changed direction at least five times. Chinese heavyweights Ping An Insurance Group and Tencent Holdings fell 2.8% and 0.5%, respectively, and were among the biggest contributors by points to the gauge's losses. London-headquartered HSBC Holdings added 0.9%. During the break, the bank reported a 28% jump in third-quarter net profit.

Monday's choppy moves followed a 3.3% retreat for Hong Kong's main equity gauge last week amid a global equity sell-off and after verbal support for the Chinese market from regulators failed to lift sentiment. Indexes on Wall Street fell on Friday after disappointing quarterly results from some large companies and data showing a slower pace of U.S. economic growth in the third quarter.

Numbers published by China on Saturday showed the nation's industrial profits grew at a slower sequentially in September, the latest in a string of data releases that have pointed toward a slowdown in Asia's largest economy. In the mainland, the Shanghai Composite fell 1.5% while its Shenzhen counterpart retreated 1.3%. The yuan was down 0.2% against the U.S. dollar at 6.9528.

"The Hong Kong stock market will remain volatile in short term despite Beijing putting forth measures to stabilize the A-share market," said Ben Kwong, head of research and executive director at KGI Asia. "Global stock markets are still seeing sell-offs and the Hong Kong market is not immune."

He noted that the technical trend for the city's main gauge is still negative.

Chinese automaker Great Wall Motor tumbled 7.9% in Hong Kong after reporting a 50% decline in net profit for the July to September quarter on a near 20% decrease in revenue.

China Eastern Airlines jumped 6.1% after reporting a 13.4% increase in revenue for the January to September period. Profit for the period fell 43.3% from a year ago.

Tsingtao Brewery fell 4.1%. The Chinese beer maker on Friday reported a 10.6% on-year increase in third-quarter net profit and a 2% increase in revenue. During the first half of the year, the company had reported a 13% on-year increase in net profit.

Yongda Automobiles Services Holdings tumbled 15.3% after reporting an 11.2% decline in net profit for the nine months ended in September even as revenue for the period for 10.9%.

Bank of Communications advanced 1.8% following a 5.3% increase in net profit for the nine months ended Sept. 30.

New China Life Insurance slipped 2.5% despite reporting a 5.4% increase in net profit for the September quarter.

Paper-products maker Vinda International Holdings advanced 5.6% after reporting a 1.2% increase in operating profit for the nine months ended in September on an 11.1% jump in revenue.

Auto parts maker Zhejiang Shibao fell 4.9% after saying net profit for the September quarter decreases 66% from a year ago.

Infrastructure construction company China Communications Construction slipped 0.1% after reporting a 4% decline in value of new contract wins for the January to September period.