As part of China¡¯s reform program, urbanization continues to make gradual progress.

The process has been ongoing since 2014, under the National New Urbanization Plan, with a focus on people-centered urbanization. This means transforming rural residents into urban residents.

Currently, many people from the countryside live in cities, but lack access to social services because they are not considered urban residents due to the hukou system. It records household registration by birthplace and determines where citizens may live.

The hukou system is gradually shifting to registration by residence under the current reform process. But this transformation has been painstakingly slow in order to maintain social stability. It promises to continue into 2017, holding back what could be a rising source of domestic demand.

China¡¯s urbanization program is an important part of structural reform, as the nation transitions to a more productive, service-based economy. This has been recognized not only by China¡¯s leadership, but also by onlookers such as the World Bank.

The percentage of population living in urban areas was 56.1% in April of this year, with a target rate of 60% by 2020. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, migrant workers comprised 19.76% of China¡¯s total population in 2013, while urban residents comprised 35.7% of the total population. The target is to help 100 million migrant workers obtain an urban hukou by 2020.

Policy passed by the State Council in January of this year called on cities to relax restrictions on college graduates, skilled workers and overseas returnees to obtain urban hukou. Rural migrants have been encouraged to settle in smaller towns and cities rather than larger cities due to overpopulation in larger cities.

The process of making urban residents out of rural residents has been a slow one, as large cities are loath to convert rural migrants to urban hukou holders. And because the 2014 plan targets the transformation of only 100 million rural migrants, less than one half of the total rural migrant population of 230 million.

One reason behind stalling the transformation is selectivity. Already, 30 provinces and regions have published guidelines for reform, requiring potential urban residents to meet certain requirements, in exchange for access to public services. Rural residents favored for urban resident status include those with higher education or distinctions under the points system allowed in cities with over 3 million residents.

For example, Beijing¡¯s points system takes into account stable employment, housing, workplace location, age, honors and financial credit. However, the points system fails to set a target level of points for rural migrants to qualify for urban residency. Cities like Shanghai and Guangzhou do have a target level of points, but impose an additional quota system on rural migrants who can become urban residents. Qualifying migrants in Shanghai amounted to 300,000 last year, but only 26,000 were able to obtain a Shanghai hukou.

Kam-Wing Chan, a Professor at the University of Washington and an expert on Chinese urbanization, argues that while selectivity is justified in terms of generating economic productivity by skilled members of society, the current process of allowing rural migrants to become urban residents is too slow. According to Dr. Chan, the transformation of rural migrants to urban residents ¡°will need a significant change in the policy-makers¡¯ mindset as well as in other related areas, such as giving more access of public education to migrant children, and the rationalization of the central-local fiscal relations with reference to providing urban services. ¡°

These urban services require funding, which must come from local governments¡¯ already strapped coffers. Services include healthcare, education and housing. Even Hu Zhucai, vice chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, admitted in January of this year that providing rural migrants with urban hukou by 2020 will be difficult to attain. He stated, ¡°the hukou holder rate increase was impeded by two factors: local governments' reluctance and rural residents' wariness."

Local governments are also required to provide infrastructure for urban residents. They have hustled to improve infrastructure in step with an expanding population, though the pace of urbanization continues to place challenges on city services. The length of drainage pipes and sewage processing capacity doubled between 2005 and 2014, while the urban population density has almost tripled, according to China¡¯s National Bureau of Statistics.

China has also restricted migration to large cities in order to control the population in these areas, reducing the potential rural migrant population. The slow process of transforming rural migrants to urban residents, coupled with barriers to migration in large cities, will have the result of dampening consumption. This is because rural migrants are more likely to save due to the uncertainty surrounding their living conditions, or remit funds back to families in rural areas. Rural migrants often lack proper permanent housing, which provides a disincentive to furnish their homes with consumer goods.

This is unfortunate, since China is losing other sources of growth, and has been keen to promote consumption as a factor in boosting GDP. As noted by Premier Li this past July, the government will promote new urbanization to unleash domestic demand. This is a tune that is being sung repeatedly at major conferences.

In order to spur growth, Chinese cities must transform their rural migrants into urban residents at a faster rate, and the central government should be more ambitious in timing, allowing more migrants to become urban hukou holders, more quickly. If this is not carried out, China's goals to promote domestic consumption may fall short of bolstering growth as older sources of economic activity decline.