GM executives chose not to fix a defective ignition because it would cost $1 per car. On March 10, 2010, Brooke Melton experienced the worst kind of d¨¦j¨¤ vu. Four days earlier, she had wrestled her 2005 GM Cobalt to the side of the road after the engine suddenly shut off. The car was serviced and supposedly fixed, but it happened again, cutting off power to her steering and brakes. This time the pediatric nurse, described by those who knew her as ¡°sweet and caring,¡± lost control and swerved into another car. She died in the collision. Brooke was on her way to celebrate her 29th birthday with her boyfriend. At the hospital, Brooke¡¯s father bent over and whispered in his daughter¡¯s ear that he would find out what happened that terrible night. The Meltons would exercise their right to seek justice and, like many brave Americans before them, ultimately make this a safer world for us all. GM knew ignition problem existed. >>> GM¡¯s failure to fix a known defect with an ignition switch, which affected several Chevrolet models made between 2003 and 2007, is blamed for at least 32 crashes and 13 deaths. Approximately 6,000 deaths and millions of injuries are prevented each year because companies have improved the safety of their products and services in response to product liability laws.

 

 The Center for Justice & Democracy is a national consumer organization fighting for civil justice and raising awareness to protect Americans. Its members are urging GM to create a compensation fund for those injured in crashes related to the defective ignition switch. The Consumers Union and Ralph Nader founded the Center for Auto Safety in 1970 to provide consumers a voice for auto safety and quality in Washington, D.C. Visit the Center¡¯s website to track recalls, file or read complaints and read about the latest developments in auto safety. The Consumer Federation of America is an association of nonprofit consumer organizations established to advance consumer interests through research, advocacy and education. Today nearly 300 groups belong to the Federation. Find those located in your state here.