Britain's blue chips closed in the red for the second time this week as global equities took a bashing as trade tensions escalate.

FTSE 100 closed down over 27 points at 7.603, while FTSE 250 shed over 163 points to close the afternoon session at 20,835.

"For weeks the market has been relatively complacent that Trump¡¯s tough protectionist rhetoric were merely a negotiating tool; however, the realisation that the US President is willing to go ahead with his threats has sent a shiver through the markets," said Fiona Cincotta, senior market analyst at spreadbetter City Index.

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has tanked 289 points at the time of writing, while the Nasdaq is down over 61.

The German Dax is off a further 1.5% today extending 1.3% loss from the previous session, with large exporters dominating the biggest losers.

But Brent crude sailed upward, adding 2.59% to US$75.34 a barrel, ahead of the key OPEC meeting in Vienna on Friday (June 22), where it is widely expected more barrels will be allowed to flow into the market.

Top riser on Footsie was take-away app ( ), while the biggest loser was Smith DS ( ), down 4.48% to 525p.

3:25pm: FTSE 100 remains in doldrums as profit warnings and trade war dents sentiment

The FTSE 100 was down 42 points or 0.56% to trade at 7,588 with just over an hour until Tuesday¡¯s close.

Whilst a string of profit warnings provided the sessions early trading triggers, for the most part the day¡¯s narrative was dominated by the apparent escalation of the so-called trade war between the United States and China.

In New York, the Dow Jones slumped more than 409 points or 1.64% to 24,577.

¡°Global stock markets have reacted strongly with the US Dollar and Chinese Renminbi weakening,¡± said Chris Payne, managing director at GWM Investment Management.

 

 ¡°European markets have been selling off as automakers and miners - the sectors most at risk of a trade war ¨C have fallen sharply. In addition, Shang-Hai stocks have plunged to two-year lows.¡±

Payne added: ¡°Despite all this tit-for-tat posturing, an all-out trade war is unlikely to ensue because it will not benefit anybody, especially China whose economy is going through a major deleveraging process.

 

 ¡°It should also be noted that China will soon run out of US goods on which to impose retaliatory tariffs which will move this negotiation to a more sensible and constructive forum.¡±

analyst Jack Allardyce believes the coming OPEC meeting could result in lower crude prices, tipping Brent to dip around US$5 per barrel.

Allardyce said the broker shares ¡°the general expectation¡± that crude oil supply quotas will be increased, but, that it will probably more in line with the smaller ranges being quoted - estimated between 300,000 to 600,000 bopd.

¡°We would see the mooted higher end of the forecasts (1.5-1.8mmbopd) as a struggle due to actual physical capacity,¡± the analyst said.

 

 ¡°In terms of the production increase, we could see this knocking c$5/bbl off Brent and perhaps squeezing the WTI discount a little.

 

 ¡°However, taking into account the recent inventory draws (suggesting that the market actually requires a bit more supply) we wouldn¡¯t expect too much more than that.¡±

He added: ¡°Given the disagreement amongst the ranks we¡¯d be a little surprised if a formal agreement was made regarding a wider cartel, but the Saudis and Russians do seem to be completely in step in terms of oil policy so it probably could be something we see in the not-too-distant future.¡±

Tuesday¡¯s Wall Street open followed pre-market indications with the Dow Jones down 316 points or 1.26% to 24,671 in opening deals.

At this level, the Dow has now erased its earlier gains for the year to date.

At the same time the S&P 500 edged 0.2% lower to 2,773 and the Nasdaq dropped 76 points or 0.99% to 7,677.

In London, at 2:35pm, the FTSE 100 was down 33 points or 0.46% changing hands at 7,597.

1:30pm: FTSE 100 remains on back foot as Dow Jones poised to drop 300 points

Wall Street is expected to open sharply lower, with the Dow Jones futures pointing to a 311 point decline to 24,705.

The S&P 500 and Nasdaq are similarly set for a soft open.

In London, the FTSE 100 was down 42 points or 0.56% changing hands at 7,588.

¡°Donald Trump¡¯s latest threat to impose fresh tariffs on China has roiled financial markets and left investors on high alert,¡± said Lukman Otunuga, FXTM analyst.

¡°The ongoing friction between the two nations has clearly kept market players on edge, with global stocks sliding amid the growing caution.

 

 ¡°With the escalating ¡®tit-for-tat¡¯ trade war seen as a major risk to global stability, investors may offload riskier assets for safe-haven investments.¡±

12:10pm: FTSE 100 sees a modicum of respite, but Wall Street seen sharply lower

City traders saw a modicum of relative respite as Tuesday¡¯s lunchtime arrived, with the FTSE 100 narrowing the morning¡¯s earlier losses.

Changing hands at 7,594 London¡¯s blue-chip benchmark was off 36 points or 0.48%.

Market watchers are keeping eyes on foreign exchange and US futures for their next steers.

¡°The FTSE managed to halve its initial decline from 1% to 0.5% as lunchtime approached, allowing the index to lift back towards 7600,¡± said Connor Campbell, analyst at . ¡°It appears that the pound¡¯s own half a percent decline against the dollar, the currency¡¯s balking at the government¡¯s ongoing Brexit battles, helped the FTSE staunch its losses.

¡°Cable is now under $1.318 for the first time in 7 months, with sterling likely praying for the slightly whiff of hawkishness from the on Thursday.¡±

Campbell added: ¡°Looking to this afternoon and there is still plenty to suggest Tuesday¡¯s trading could go further southwards.

¡°The Dow Jones is facing a 300 point plunge when the bell rings on Wall Street, a dive that would leave the index below 24700 and effectively complete the erasure of the gains the Dow saw in the first week or so of June.

 

 ¡°There¡¯s not a lot on the agenda this afternoon to distract from the trade tensions, so the markets will be on high alert for any updates from Trump or Beijing.¡±

The oil market is in focus ahead of this week¡¯s OPEC meeting, set for Friday, where the crude cabal will assess demand and an apparently stronger market.

Brent crude was down about 0.5% on Tuesday changing hands at US$74.95 per barrel, marking its lowest level since April.

Oil prices have softened in recent weeks for a number of reasons ¨C anticipation of higher OPEC production, weaker emerging market demand, risks of trade disputes and the possibility of rising inventories.

, however, reckons the crude market will remain in deficit and, in a note, the bank¡¯s analysts said the market had resilient demand growth.

According to Goldman, the market will be ¡°moderately tighter¡± through to the second quarter of 2019, despite the possibility that OPEC and Russia output will reach new highs by next summer.

¡°While concerns over OPEC production and demand may continue to weigh on prices in the near term, this leads us to reiterate our forecast for Brent prices to rally further, with risks to our peak $82.5/bbl forecast still skewed to the upside later this year,¡± said analyst Damien Courvalin.

Elsewhere, also discussing the crude market, CMC Markets analyst Michael Hewson said: ¡°Last week US President Trump broke with convention by saying that OPEC should stop manipulating prices higher and increase production in an effort to help prevent this income squeeze hurting US consumers, where prices of gasoline have pushed well above $3 a gallon in most of the country.

Hewson added: ¡°Putting to one side the fact that it is some of President Trumps policies that have helped fuel this rise, in prices, pulling out of the Iran nuclear deal being one, this week we will see OPEC members and Russia sit down a discuss a proposal to increase production levels by 1m barrels a day, thus drawing to a close production caps that have lasted since late 2016.¡±

¡°There is an element of self-preservation in seeking to do this, as while most oil producers prefer higher prices they will also want to avoid a scenario where prices reach a level where demand drops off sharply, thus triggering a global slowdown, as well as accelerating the push for renewables.¡±

10:30am: FTSE 100 stuck on back foot as US vs China tariff tit-for-tat continues

The FTSE 100 remained on the back-foot through ¡¯s deals as the market continues fear what will come of the apparently escalating trade dispute between the United States and China.

Standing at 7,589 the index of London¡¯s top 100 shares was down 41 points or 0.55%

¡°The list of who threatened what is getting long,¡± said Fiona Cincotta, City Index senior market analyst.

Cincotta added: ¡°With both sides seemingly determined to retaliate it is hard to see how this will end without a bloodshed for business, particularly US businesses.

 

 ¡°The Federal Reserve's officials have already warned that Trump¡¯s tariffs are scaring companies from making new investments.¡±

The analyst further noted the knock-on impact of stronger US dollar against the British pound, which is not without its more localised triggers - not least the evidently messing politics involved in executing Brexit.

¡°The dollar was one of the few assets benefiting from the Sino-US tensions and rose against a basket of currencies.

¡°The pound, however, was bogged down by domestic problems and declined below $1.32 for the first time since November.

¡°Teresa May continues to struggle to get any Brexit-related decision approved by the Parliament and a vote by the Lords is about to make her life even more difficult because it will require that the Commons approve any Brexit deal reached between the government and Brussels.¡±

London¡¯s FTSE 100 has extended yesterday¡¯s losses as a slew of weak trading updates and results further compounded the market¡¯s worries.

At 9:45am, the FTSE 100 was down 50 points or 0.66% changing hands at 7,578.

Monday had started the week poorly, mainly due to fears of an escalating trade war between the United States and China as well as potential political uncertainty in Germany.

Since then, Donald Trump's increasingly incendiary moves towards China, the latest step was a further 10% tariff on some US$200bn of Chinese imports, continues to stoke market volatility.

Closer to home, however, there were more immediate worries of investors in London who are facing up to multiple profit warnings today.

¡°Another bad day for UK Retail and Housebuilders, with profits warnings from and Foot Asylum hurting for former and McCarthy & Stone doing the same for the latter. And then there is hobby group Hornby and FTSE member Ashtead too down in the dumps too,¡± said Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets.

The City¡¯s natural resource sectors, mining particularly, are also seen weaker largely due to their reliance on Chinese trade.

8:30am: FTSE 100 hit by escalating trade war; issues yet another profit warning

The FTSE 100 fell 67 points to 7,563.84 as London reacted to escalating trade war between the US and China.