¡°What saves a family is having a policy we follow,¡± she said. ¡°Most family members are not that offended when you tell them that. If you said, ¡®I don¡¯t like you,¡¯ that wouldn¡¯t work as well.¡±

Drew McMorrow, president of Ballentine Partners, said a strict set of guidelines on when and under what conditions they would make additional investment could also save people from investing more than they wanted. One strategy, he said, was to have all investments pegged to a percentage of what the person could raise from other investors ¡ª for example, putting in 20 percent of every outside dollar raised.

Without set parameters, Mr. McMorrow said, entrepreneurs who feel they are close to success but just shy of the money they need will not understand why the investor cannot give more. ¡°That¡¯s where the emotions get higher and the pain of loss is never forgotten,¡± he said.

Mr. Liss said sticking to a process and keeping the emotion to a minimum in these investments was something he has learned only with time. ¡°In the past, when I¡¯ve deviated from that process, my personal emotion of being the guy who is dying to help you gets in the way,¡± he said. ¡°And it doesn¡¯t serve you or me very well.¡±

MAKE AN ANALYSIS Mr. Leventhal said he weeded out about 90 percent of offers with a few questions. How much of their own money were they going to invest? What do they want to accomplish with the money? Real estate, he said, was the easiest because he could understand the cash flow. Businesses were the hardest because so many of them sounded plausible. He said he remembered a golf club in Virginia that had a famous architect and a great location but went bankrupt in the recession; he considers it a success that none of his four clients who were approached about it invested money.

Another thing Mr. Reynders does is clarify whether the money is to cover development expenses that will not be recouped or is an actual investment with the expectation of a return.

CONSIDER THE OTHER INVESTORS Mr. Reynders said he took the process one step further, particularly in the case of family members: he asks for third-party investors. ¡°The entrepreneur has an obligation to that third-party investor,¡± he said. ¡°It tells the family this isn¡¯t about family. This is an investment.¡±