Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman won¡¯t stand down from his $1 billion, more-than-five year bet against nutritional supplement company Herbalife Ltd. (HLF). Ackman¡¯s Pershing Square Capital Management has waged a major crusade against the Los Angeles-based multi-level marketing company, deeming it an illegal pyramid scheme and targeting the firm through means including his participation in a Netflix documentary called ¡°Betting on Zero.¡± (See also: Herbalife, Other MLMs, Crash on Chinese Crackdown.)

On Wednesday, the billionaire investor said Pershing Square has adopted a new strategy and has closed its short position to instead buy options to sell shares of Herbalife. While closing out a short position typically signals that an investor has incurred a loss, the move to options caps the potential losses Pershing Square may incur in the future.

¡°We converted the short stock position and replaced it with outright put positions,¡± Ackman told CNBC. He said he remains steadfast in his allegations against the weight-loss company yet seeks to limit potential losses for his fund¡¯s investors. With the new strategy, potential losses are now reportedly limited to 3% of the firm¡¯s capital.

¡°We've been entirely right on our Herbalife investment in terms of the fundamentals of the business,¡± said Ackman, who expects shares to eventually come crashing down to zero as the company faces intense regulatory scrutiny. Herbalife has denied the claims all along, with bulls including Ackman¡¯s archnemesis, Carl Icahn, cheering as the stock has continued to prove resistant to overwhelmingly negative media. HLF has spiked a whopping 46.4% year-to-date (YTD), compared to the S&P 500¡¯s 15.2% increase over the same period.

¡°We've been wrong on the share price, Ultimately the [negative] fundamentals will prove right... Because it is in the form of derivatives, the upside is great and we don't have these risks associated with a short squeeze,¡± said Ackman. (See also: Herbalife Sinks as FTC Regulation Stands to Thwart Growth.)