SANTA MONICA, Calif. and LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Activision Blizzard, Inc. (¡°Activision Blizzard¡±) (Nasdaq:ATVI) and King Digital Entertainment plc (¡°King¡±) (NYSE: KING) today announced the signing of a definitive agreement under which ABS Partners C.V. (¡°ABS Partners¡±), a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard, will acquire all of the outstanding shares of King for $18.00 in cash per share, for a total equity value of $5.9 billion (the ¡°Acquisition¡±). The $18.00 per share purchase price implies a 20% premium over King¡¯s 30 October 2015 closing price, a 26% premium over King¡¯s 30 October 2015 enterprise value (which excludes net cash), a 23% premium over King¡¯s one month volume weighted average price per share and a 27% premium over King¡¯s three month volume weighted average price per share. The boards of directors of both Activision Blizzard and King unanimously approved the Acquisition, which is being implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement under Irish law. The Acquisition is subject to approval by King¡¯s shareholders and the Irish High Court, clearances by the relevant antitrust authorities and other customary closing conditions, and it is currently expected that the Acquisition will be completed by Spring 2016.

Activision Blizzard believes that the addition of King¡¯s highly-complementary business will position Activision Blizzard as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console and PC platforms, and positions the company for future growth. The combined company will have a world-class interactive entertainment portfolio of top-performing franchises, including two of the top five highest-grossing mobile games in the U.S. (Candy Crush Saga, Candy Crush Soda Saga), the world¡¯s most successful console game franchise (Call of Duty), and the world¡¯s most successful personal computing franchise (World of Warcraft), as well as such well known franchises as Blizzard Entertainment¡¯s Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, StarCraft, and Diablo and Activision Publishing¡¯s Guitar Hero, Skylanders and Destiny, along with over 1,000 game titles in its library. Activision Blizzard expects that this leading content, together with expertise across subscription, upfront purchase, free-to-play and micro-transaction business models will enhance Activision Blizzard¡¯s position as one of the world¡¯s most successful interactive entertainment companies. During the last twelve months ended 30 September 2015, Activision Blizzard had non-GAAP revenues of $4.7 billion and King had adjusted revenues of $2.1 billion. During the same period Activision Blizzard had adjusted EBITDA of $1.6B and King had adjusted EBITDA of $0.9 billion. During the last twelve months ended 30 September 2015, Activision Blizzard had GAAP revenues of $4.9 billion and King had IFRS revenues of $2.1 billion. During the same period, Activision Blizzard had GAAP net income of $1.1 billion, and King had IFRS profit of $0.6 billion.

Bobby Kotick, Chief Executive Officer of Activision Blizzard, said, ¡°The combined revenues and profits solidify our position as the largest, most profitable standalone company in interactive entertainment. With a combined global network of more than half a billion monthly active users, our potential to reach audiences around the world on the device of their choosing enables us to deliver great games to even bigger audiences than ever before.¡±

Kotick, added: ¡°Riccardo, Sebastian, and Stephane are some of the best minds in the business, and we have long-admired King for consistently creating incredibly fun, deeply engaging free-to-play games that capture the imaginations of players across ages and demographics. Activision Blizzard will provide King with experience, support and investment to continue to build on their tremendous legacy and reach new potential. We share an unwavering commitment to attracting and developing the best talent in the business, and we are excited about what we will be able to accomplish together.¡±

Riccardo Zacconi, Chief Executive Officer of King, said, ¡°We are excited to be entering into this Acquisition with Activision Blizzard. Since 2003, we have built one of the largest player networks on mobile and Facebook, with 474 million monthly active users in the third quarter 2015, and our talented team has created some of the most successful mobile game franchises. We believe that the Acquisition will position us very well for the next phase of our company¡¯s evolution and will bring clear benefits to our players and employees. We will combine our expertise in mobile and free-to-play with Activision Blizzard¡¯s world-class brands and proven track record of building and sustaining the most successful franchises, to bring the best games in the world to millions of players worldwide. We are very much looking forward to working with Activision Blizzard. We have two teams that, together, will have an amazing footprint, innovative technology, and leadership across platforms, and unique, established IPs to delight one of the largest networks of players in the world.¡±

Gerhard Florin, Chairman of King¡¯s board of directors, said, ¡°The Acquisition provides a return to King shareholders through the premium that it provides to King¡¯s share price and the immediate liquidity that the Acquisition will provide to all of our shareholders upon completion. The King board of directors believes that Activision Blizzard¡¯s cash offer is attractive given the balance of future opportunities, risks and competitive forces confronting King¡¯s business.¡±

Activision Blizzard believes that the following points will accelerate Activision Blizzard¡¯s strategic growth plan:
 One of the Largest Global Entertainment Networks. This Acquisition will create one of the largest global entertainment networks with over half a billion combined monthly active users in 196 countries. This global audience will reach across casual and core gamers, female and male players, and developed and emerging markets throughout the world. Direct relationships with this large and diverse audience will extend Activision Blizzard¡¯s reach, creating opportunities to cross-promote content and engage new players with Activision Blizzard¡¯s franchises.
 A New Global Leader in Mobile Gaming. Through this Acquisition, Activision Blizzard will become a global leader in mobile gaming¡ªthe largest and fastest-growing area of interactive entertainment, that is expected to generate over $36 billion of revenue by the end of 2015 and grow cumulatively by over 50% from 2015 to 2019.
 Diverse Franchise Portfolio with Leadership Across Key Platforms and Genres. The combined company will have a portfolio encompassing 10 of the world¡¯s most iconic interactive entertainment franchises with leading titles including two of the top five highest-grossing mobile games in the U.S. (Candy Crush Saga, Candy Crush Soda Saga), the world¡¯s most successful console game franchise (Call of Duty), and the world¡¯s most successful personal computing franchise (World of Warcraft), among others. This world-class collection of games spans genres and platforms, drives deep, year-round engagement, and is well-positioned for continued growth.
 Potential Cross-Network Growth Opportunities. Combining one of the largest mobile gaming communities with Activision Blizzard¡¯s leading franchises creates potential opportunities to grow and cross-promote content to a diverse audience, while providing players more opportunities to engage with its content.
 Enhanced Capabilities Across Business Models. The combined company¡¯s capabilities across subscription, upfront purchase, free-to-play and micro-transaction business models will accelerate diversification of Activision Blizzard¡¯s revenue streams. This expertise across diverse monetization methods will lead to new opportunities to delight players and provide Activision Blizzard with key capabilities to meet evolving player preferences and reach new untapped audiences. The combined company will benefit from King¡¯s leading mobile capabilities that can be applied across the portfolio from micro-transactions, game analytics and mobile marketing to increase digital revenues.
 The Most Profitable, Successful Standalone Interactive Entertainment Company in the World. During the last twelve months Activision Blizzard had non-GAAP revenues of $4.7 billion and King had adjusted revenues of $2.1 billion, and for the same period, adjusted EBITDA of $1.6 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. The combined company will have further diversified and recurring revenues, cash flow generation, and long-term growth opportunities to propel future value creation for shareholders. Activision Blizzard believes the Acquisition will be accretive to 2016 estimated non-GAAP revenues and earnings per share by approximately 30% and significantly accretive to 2016 estimated free cash flow per share. Activision Blizzard expects the combined company to maintain a disciplined capital allocation policy and strong balance sheet.
 Experienced Management Team. King will continue to be led by Chief Executive Officer Riccardo Zacconi, Chief Creative Officer Sebastian Knutsson, and Chief Operating Officer Stephane Kurgan, all of whom have strong expertise and proven track records in mobile gaming and have entered into long-term employment contracts. It is Activision Blizzard¡¯s intention that King will operate as an independent operating unit, with enhanced resources to support its industry-leading franchises. Activision Blizzard has a strong integration track record, and implementing the Acquisition as structured will minimize disruption and integration risk while maintaining the spirit of creative independence. The combination unites Activision Blizzard¡¯s and King¡¯s highly-complementary cultures, with aligned commitment to innovation, deep respect for the creative process, franchise focus, and emphasis on talent development.
 Under the terms of the Acquisition, which has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies, King¡¯s shareholders will receive $18.00 in cash per share comprising a total equity value of $5.9 billion and an enterprise value of $5.0 billion. The purchase price represents a 20% premium over King¡¯s closing price on 30 October 2015, a 23% premium over King¡¯s one month volume weighted average price per share, and a 27% premium over King¡¯s three month volume weighted average price per share and implies a multiple of 6.4x King¡¯s estimated 2015 adjusted EBITDA.
 The cash consideration payable by Activision Blizzard under the terms of the Acquisition will be funded from approximately US$3.6 billion of offshore cash on the balance sheet of the Activision Blizzard Group and by an incremental term loan committed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as incremental lenders, under Activision Blizzard¡¯s existing credit agreement in the amount of US$2.3 billion.
 The King board of directors, who have been so advised by J.P. Morgan as to the financial terms of the Acquisition, consider the terms of the Acquisition to be fair and reasonable. In providing its advice to the King Directors, J.P. Morgan has taken into account the commercial assessments of the King Directors.
 Accordingly, the King Directors unanimously recommended that King¡¯s shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions relating to the Acquisition at the relevant shareholder and scheme meetings.
 It is intended that the Acquisition will be implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement under Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Irish Companies Act 2014 (the ¡°Scheme¡±). It is intended that the scheme document, (the ¡°Scheme Document¡±) containing the full terms and conditions of the Acquisition (including notices of the shareholder and scheme meetings), will be issued to King¡¯s shareholders, and, for information only, to holders of King¡¯s options and share awards, within 28 days of this Announcement, unless otherwise agreed with the Irish Takeover Panel. The Scheme Document will be made available by Activision Blizzard at and by King at .
 The Acquisition will be put to King¡¯s shareholders at both a scheme meeting and a shareholder meeting. In order to become effective, the Scheme must be approved by a majority in number of the King¡¯s shareholders voting at the scheme meeting, either in person or by proxy, representing at least 75% in value of the King shares voted in each relevant share class. In addition, a special resolution implementing the Scheme and approving the related reduction of share capital must be approved by the King shareholders representing at least 75% of votes cast at the shareholder meeting.
 The Acquisition, by means of a Scheme, is conditional, among other things, on the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set out in Appendix I. The Scheme will also require the sanction of the Irish High Court. Subject to the satisfaction, or where relevant waiver, of all relevant conditions and the sanction of the Irish High Court, it is currently expected that the Scheme will become effective and the Acquisition will be completed by Spring 2016. An expected timetable of principal events will be included in the Scheme Document.
 If the Scheme becomes effective, it will be binding on all King shareholders, irrespective of whether or not they attended and/or voted at the court or shareholder meetings (and if they attended and voted, whether or not they voted in favour).
 Activision Blizzard and ABS Partners have received irrevocable undertakings from Messrs. Riccardo Zacconi, Stephane Kurgan, Sebastian Knutsson, being members of the King Board, that they will vote in favour of the matters and resolutions to be considered at the court and shareholder meetings in their capacity as shareholders (or, in the event that the Acquisition is implemented by way of a takeover offer on terms and conditions at least as favourable, in aggregate, as the Scheme, to accept the offer or procure acceptance of the offer) in respect of their entire beneficial holdings of King shares amounting to, in aggregate, 49,408,045 King shares, representing approximately 16% of the issued share capital of King on 30 October 2015 (being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Announcement).
 In addition, Activision Blizzard and ABS Partners have received irrevocable undertakings from certain other King Shareholders, namely Bellaria Holding S.¨¤ r.l. and Mr. Thomas Hartwig, King¡¯s Chief Technology Officer, that they will vote in favour of the matters and resolutions to be considered at the court and shareholder meetings (or, in the event that the Acquisition is implemented by way of a takeover offer on terms and conditions at least as favourable, in aggregate, as the Scheme, to accept the offer or procure acceptance of the offer) in respect of their entire beneficial holdings of King shares amounting to, in aggregate, 147,107,666 King shares, representing approximately 47% of the issued share capital of King on 30 October 2015 (being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Announcement).
 In addition, Activision Blizzard and ABS Partners have received irrevocable undertakings from Messrs. Robert Miller, Marcus Jacobs, Tjodolf Sommestad and Nicholas Pointon and Ms. Frances Williams and Jill Kyne, being holders of linked shares, that in their capacity as holders of linked shares they will vote in favour of the matters and resolutions to be considered at the relevant class meetings relating to approval of the Scheme (or, in the event that the Acquisition is implemented by way of a takeover offer on terms and conditions at least as favourable, in aggregate, as the Scheme, to accept the offer or procure acceptance of the offer) in respect of their entire beneficial holdings of linked shares (as applicable) amounting to, in aggregate, 190,790 linked shares which, together with the commitments from Messrs. Zacconi and Kurgan referred to above (which amount to 2,077,080 linked shares, in aggregate), represents approximately 92% of the issued linked share capital on 30 October 2015 (being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Announcement).

This summary should be read in conjunction with, and is subject to, the full text of the attached Announcement (including its appendices). The Acquisition is subject to the conditions set out in Appendix I to this Announcement and the further terms to be set out in the Scheme Document. The sources and bases of information contained in this Announcement are set out in Appendix II and Appendix V. Additional information is provided in Appendix III. Certain definitions and expressions used in this Announcement are set out in Appendix IV.

Activision Blizzard and King will host a conference call at 8:00 a.m. ET/New York time tomorrow, 3 November 2015, to review the Acquisition and host a question and answer session. To access the conference call, interested parties may dial 888-596-2572 (domestic callers) or 913-312-0653 (international callers). The Conference ID Number is 9960349. Participants can also listen to a live webcast of the call through the Investor Relations page of Activision Blizzard¡¯s website at investor.activision.com. During the conference call and webcast, management will review a presentation summarizing the Acquisition, which can be accessed at investor.activision.com or at activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com. A webcast replay will be available for the duration of the offer period at activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com. Please call five minutes in advance to ensure that you are connected. Questions and answers will be taken only from participants on the conference call. For the webcast, please allow 15 minutes to register, download and install any necessary software.

Simultaneous with this Announcement, Activision Blizzard issued its third quarter 2015 results in a separate release. Activision Blizzard plans to address questions regarding its quarterly financial results during a separate portion of the conference call scheduled at 8:00 a.m. ET/New York time tomorrow, 3 November 2015. Activision Blizzard previously planned to issue its earnings following the close of the market tomorrow. The previously scheduled call following the markets close tomorrow has been cancelled.

King will announce third quarter 2015 results and hold its conference call for analysts and investors on 4 November 2015 as regularly scheduled.

A copy of the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by Activision Blizzard will be made available by Activision Blizzard free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions, on activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015. King will also make the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by King available on its website free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions, on http://investor.king.com/acquisition by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015.

Activision Blizzard, Inc., a member of the S&P 500, is the world¡¯s most successful standalone interactive entertainment company. It develops and publishes games based on some of the most beloved entertainment franchises, including Call of Duty, Destiny, Skylanders, Guitar Hero, World of Warcraft, StarCraft, Diablo, and Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. The company is one of the FORTUNE ¡°100 Best Companies To Work For¡± 2015. Headquartered in Santa Monica, California, it has operations throughout the world, and its games are played in 196 countries. Activision Blizzard makes games for leading interactive platforms. Activision Blizzard is a corporation organised and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, USA and is listed to trade on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol ¡°ATVI¡±. More information about Activision Blizzard and its products can be found on the company's website, www.activisionblizzard.com.

ABS Partners C.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard, Inc., is a partnership formed in the Netherlands for the purpose of making the Acquisition. ABS Partners has not traded since its establishment, nor has it entered any obligations, other than in connection with the Acquisition and the financing of the Acquisition.

King Digital Entertainment plc (NYSE: KING) is a leading interactive entertainment company for the mobile world. It had a network of 330 million monthly unique users as of third quarter 2015, has developed more than 200 exclusive games, and offers games in over 200 countries and regions through its king.com and royalgames.com websites, Facebook, and mobile distribution platforms such as the Apple App Store, Google Play Store and Amazon Appstore. King has game studios in Stockholm, Malm, London, Barcelona, Berlin, Singapore, and Seattle, along with offices in San Francisco, Malta, Seoul, Tokyo, Shanghai and Bucharest.

Activision Blizzard's financial adviser is Goldman Sachs. Activision Blizzard has also received financial advice from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, Mason Hayes & Curran and Allen & Overy LLP are providing legal advice.

King's financial adviser is J.P. Morgan. Fenwick & West LLP and William Fry are providing legal advice.

The directors of Activision Blizzard, Inc. and the sole manager of ABS Partners I, LLC (in its capacity as the general partner of ABS Partners C.V.) accept responsibility for the information contained in this Announcement other than the information relating to King, the King Group, and the directors of King and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them, for which the directors of King accept responsibility. To the best of the knowledge and belief of Activision Blizzard, Inc. and the sole manager of ABS Partners I, LLC (in its capacity as the general partner of ABS Partners C.V.) (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this Announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.

The directors of King accept responsibility for the information contained in this Announcement relating to King, the King Group and the directors of King and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them (excepting information regarding Activision Blizzard¡¯s estimates, expectations, plans and projections for King and the King Group following completion of the Acquisition for which the directors of Activision Blizzard, Inc. accept responsibility). To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of King (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this Announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.

Goldman Sachs, which is authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting exclusively for Activision Blizzard and for no one else in connection with the matters set out in this Announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Activision Blizzard for affording the protections afforded to clients of Goldman Sachs or for providing advice in connection with the contents of this Announcement or any matter referred to herein.

Bank of America Merrill Lynch is acting exclusively for Activision Blizzard and for no one else in connection with the matters set out in this Announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Activision Blizzard for providing the protections afforded to its clients or for providing advice in connection with the contents of this Announcement or any matter referred to herein.

"Bank of America Merrill Lynch" is the marketing name for the global banking and global markets businesses of Bank of America Corporation. Lending, derivatives, and other commercial banking activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including Bank of America, N.A., member FDIC. Securities, strategic advisory, and other investment banking activities are performed globally by investment banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including, in the United States, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, which is a registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA and SIPC, and, in other jurisdictions, locally registered entities.

J.P. Morgan Limited (which conducts its UK investment banking business as J.P. Morgan Cazenove) (¡°J.P. Morgan¡±), which is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority, is acting as financial adviser exclusively for King and no one else in connection with the matters set out in this Announcement and will not regard any other person as its client in relation to the matters in this Announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than King for providing the protections afforded to clients of J.P. Morgan or its affiliates, nor for providing advice in relation to any matter referred to herein.

King intends to file the Scheme Document with the SEC and mail a copy to its shareholders in advance of the EGM and in connection with the Acquisition and the Scheme. Shareholders are urged to read the Scheme Document carefully when it becomes available because it will contain important information about King, the Acquisition, the Scheme and related matters. Shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the Scheme Document and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC by King through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the Scheme Document from King by contacting ir@king.com.

The Acquisition relates to the securities of an Irish company which is a ¡°foreign private issuer¡± as defined under Rule 3b-4 under the Exchange Act and will be governed by the Irish Takeover Rules and Irish law. Neither the proxy solicitation rules nor the tender offer rules under the Exchange Act will apply to the Scheme of Arrangement pursuant to which the Acquisition is to be effected. The Scheme will be subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable in Ireland to schemes of arrangements, which differ from the disclosure requirements under the proxy solicitation and tender offer rules of the Exchange Act.

King is incorporated under the laws of Ireland. Some or all of the directors of King are resident in countries other than the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for U.S. holders of King Shares to effect service of process within the United States upon King or such directors of King or to enforce against any of them U.S. judgements predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It may not be possible to sue King or its officers or directors in a non-U.S. court for violations of U.S. securities laws.

Statements in this Announcement that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements about the expectations, assumptions, beliefs, plans, intentions or strategies of Activision Blizzard, King or their respective boards of directors, as the case may be, regarding the future, including, but not limited to, statements about the Acquisition described herein, benefits and synergies of the Acquisition, projections of revenues, gross bookings, expenses, income or loss, adjusted EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA margin, earnings or loss per share, cash flow or other financial items, future opportunities, anticipated business levels, future financial or operating performance, planned activities and objectives, including those related to product releases, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competition and other expectations, targets for future periods, and assumptions underlying such statements. These forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as ¡°will¡±, ¡°may¡±, ¡°could¡±, ¡°should¡±, ¡°would¡±, ¡°to be¡±, ¡°might¡±, ¡°project¡±, ¡°believe¡±, ¡°anticipate¡±, ¡°expect¡±, ¡°plan¡±, ¡°estimate¡±, ¡°forecast¡±, ¡°future¡±, ¡°positioned¡±, ¡°potential¡±, ¡°intend¡±, ¡°continue¡±, ¡°remain¡±, ¡°scheduled¡±, ¡°outlook¡±, ¡°set to¡±, ¡°subject to¡±, ¡°upcoming¡±, ¡°target¡± and variations of these words or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk, reflect Activision Blizzard and/or King management¡¯s current expectations and estimates, and are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: uncertainties as to the timing of the Acquisition; uncertainties as to whether Activision Blizzard will be able to consummate the Acquisition; uncertainties as to whether shareholders will provide the requisite approvals for the Acquisition on a timely basis or at all; the possibility that competing offers will be made; the possibility that certain conditions to the consummation of the Acquisition will not be satisfied, including without limitation obtaining the requisite approval of the Scheme of Arrangement at the Scheme Meeting; the possibility that Activision Blizzard will be unable to obtain regulatory approvals for the Acquisition on a timely basis or at all, or be required, as a condition to obtaining regulatory approvals, to accept conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition; the possibility that shareholders will file lawsuits challenging the Acquisition, including actions seeking to rescind the Scheme of Arrangement or enjoin the consummation of the Acquisition; the ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of the Acquisition; changes in relevant tax and other laws or regulations; the integration of King being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the diversion of Activision Blizzard and/or King management time and attention to issues relating to the Acquisition and integration; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) being greater than expected following the Acquisition; the difficulty retaining certain key employees of King and Activision Blizzard following the Acquisition; the possibility that Activision Blizzard may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the Acquisition within the expected time-frames or at all; the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings involving Activision Blizzard or King and the impact of any such proceedings on financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows of Activision Blizzard, King or the combined company; the possibility that costs, fees, expenses or charges Activision Blizzard and/or King incur in connection with the Acquisition are greater than expected; the possibility that the Scheme may be terminated in circumstances that require King to reimburse certain expenses to Activision Blizzard or Activision Blizzard to pay a termination fee to King related to the Acquisition; the ability of Activision Blizzard, King or the combined company to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; and changes in the economic and financial conditions of the businesses of Activision Blizzard, King, or the combined company.

In addition, with regard to Activision Blizzard, a number of important factors could cause Activision Blizzard's actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: sales levels of Activision Blizzard¡¯s titles; increasing concentration of revenue among a small number of titles; Activision Blizzard¡¯s ability to predict consumer preferences, including interest in specific genres and preferences among hardware platforms; the amount of Activision Blizzard¡¯s debt and the limitations imposed by the covenants in the agreements governing such debt; adoption rate and availability of new hardware (including peripherals) and related software, particularly during the console transitions; counterparty risks relating to customers, licensees, licensors and manufacturers; maintenance of relationships with key personnel, customers, financing providers, licensees, licensors, manufacturers, vendors, and third-party developers, including the ability to attract, retain and develop key personnel and developers that can create high quality titles; changing business models, including digital delivery of content and the increased prevalence of free-to-play games; product delays or defects; competition, including from used games and other forms of entertainment; rapid changes in technology and industry standards; possible declines in software pricing; product returns and price protection; the identification of suitable future acquisition opportunities and potential challenges associated with geographic expansion; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive entertainment market; litigation risks and associated costs; protection of proprietary rights; shifts in consumer spending trends; capital market risks; applicable regulations; domestic and international economic, financial and political conditions and policies; tax rates and foreign exchange rates; and the impact of the current macroeconomic environment.

Further, with regard to King, a number of important factors could cause King's actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the fact that a relatively small number of games continue to account for a substantial majority of King¡¯s revenue and gross bookings, and declines in popularity of these games could harm King¡¯s financial results; King¡¯s ability to develop new games and enhance existing games in a timely manner; delays to the launch of new games; revenues and gross bookings from King¡¯s new games not being sufficient to offset declines due to its more mature games; market acceptance of new games and enhancements to existing games; intense industry competition; King¡¯s reliance on the casual game format and the success of its efforts to expand beyond the casual format; the need to anticipate and successfully develop games for new technologies, platforms and devices; challenges in measuring key operating metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics; reliance on various third-party platforms; reliance on key personnel; acquisition-related risks, including King¡¯s ability to integrate recent acquisitions and unforeseen difficulties in developing and introducing new games from acquired companies and customer acceptance of such games; protection or enforcement of King¡¯s intellectual property rights; the continued effectiveness of King¡¯s marketing programs; litigation risks and associated costs; risks associated with operating and offering games in multiple jurisdictions; and general economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending and foreign currency exchange rates.

In addition, actual results are subject to other risks and uncertainties that relate more broadly to Activision Blizzard¡¯s and King¡¯s overall businesses, including those identified in ¡°Risk Factors¡± included in Part I, Item 1A of Activision Blizzard¡¯s most recent annual report on Form 10-K or in Part I, Item 3.D of King¡¯s most recent annual report on Form 20-F and most recent quarterly report on Form 6-K.

Any forward-looking statements in this Announcement are based upon information available to Activision Blizzard, King and/or their respective boards of directors, as the case may be, as of the date of this Announcement and, while believed to be true when made, may ultimately prove to be incorrect. Subject to any obligations under applicable law, rules and regulations, none of Activision Blizzard, King or any member of their respective boards of directors undertakes any obligation to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, or to conform any forward-looking statement to actual results, future events, or to changes in expectations. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Activision Blizzard, King, their respective boards of directors or any person acting on behalf of any of them are expressly qualified in their entirety by this paragraph.

Activision Blizzard prepares its financial information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (¡°U.S. GAAP¡±). King prepares its financial information in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (¡°IFRS¡±) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (¡°IASB¡±). Neither Activision Blizzard nor King has made any adjustments to the King IFRS basis financial information to conform to a U.S. GAAP basis of presentation.

Both Activision Blizzard and King use non-GAAP and non-IFRS (collectively, ¡°non-GAAP¡±) measures of financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS. Refer to Appendix V for additional information on the non-GAAP measures and reconciliation to U.S. GAAP or IFRS. Trailing twelve month financial information is based on financial information through 30 September 2015 as published by Activision Blizzard and King. Estimated 2015 and 2016 measurements of financial information for Activision Blizzard and King are based on IBES estimates as of 30 October 2015.

Save for the specific information relating to King¡¯s third quarter earnings or fourth quarter outlook set out in this Announcement, no statement in this Announcement is intended to constitute a profit forecast for any period, nor should any statements be interpreted to mean that earnings or earnings per share will necessarily be greater or lesser than those for the relevant preceding financial periods for King or Activision Blizzard or ABS Partners, as appropriate. No statement in this Announcement constitutes an asset valuation.

As at close of business on 30 October 2015 King confirms that King¡¯s issued share capital is comprised of 40,000 euro deferred shares of 1.00 each and 315,541,571 King Shares (inclusive of 2,465,086 Linked Shares). The King Shares are admitted to trading on NYSE under the ticker symbol KING. The International Securities Identification Number for the King Shares is IE00BKJ9QQ58.

There are outstanding options over 23,464,158 King Shares which have been granted by King and have exercise prices ranging from $0.00008 to $31.37 per King Share and there are outstanding King RSUs over 5,617,998 King Shares.

Disclosure Requirements for Certain Holders of King Securities

Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Rules, if any person is, or becomes, ¡°interested¡± (directly or indirectly) in, 1% or more of any class of ¡°relevant securities¡± of King, all ¡°dealings¡± in any ¡°relevant securities¡± of King (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such ¡°relevant securities¡±) must be publicly disclosed by not later than 3:30 pm ET/New York time on the ¡°business day¡± following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the Effective Date or the Offer Period otherwise ends. If two or more persons co-operate on the basis of any agreement, either express or tacit, either oral or written, to acquire an ¡°interest¡± in ¡°relevant securities¡± of King, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Rules.

Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the Irish Takeover Rules, all ¡°dealings¡± in ¡°relevant securities¡± of King by Activision Blizzard or ABS Partners, or by any party acting in concert with it, must also be disclosed by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on the ¡°business¡± day following the date of the relevant transaction.

A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose ¡°relevant securities¡± ¡°dealings¡± should be disclosed, can be found on the Irish Takeover Panel¡¯s website at www.irishtakeoverpanel.ie.

¡°Interests in securities¡± arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an ¡°interest¡± by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.

Terms in quotation marks are defined in the Irish Takeover Rules, which can also be found on the Irish Takeover Panel's website.

If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a dealing under Rule 8, please consult the Irish Takeover Panel's website at www.irishtakeoverpanel.ie or contact the Irish Takeover Panel on telephone number +353 1 678 9020 or fax number +353 1 678 9289.

This Announcement is not intended to, and does not, constitute an offer to purchase, sell, subscribe for or exchange, or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell, subscribe for or exchange or an invitation to purchase, sell, subscribe for or exchange any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. This Announcement does not constitute a prospectus or an equivalent document and it is not intended to, and does not, constitute or form any part of an offer or invitation to sell or purchase or subscribe for any securities or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise.

The release, publication or distribution of this Announcement in or into certain jurisdictions may be restricted by the laws of those jurisdictions, including any Restricted Jurisdictions. Accordingly, copies of this Announcement and all other documents relating to the Acquisition are not being, and must not be, released, published, mailed or otherwise forwarded, distributed or sent in, into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction. Persons receiving such documents (including, without limitation, nominees, trustees and custodians) should observe these restrictions. Failure to do so may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the companies involved in the Acquisition disclaim any responsibility or liability for the violations of any such restrictions by any person.

This Announcement has been prepared for the purposes of complying with Irish law and the Irish Takeover Rules and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this Announcement had been prepared in accordance with the laws and regulations of any jurisdiction outside Ireland.

The full text of the conditions to which the Acquisition is subject and reference to certain further terms of the Acquisition are set out in Appendix I.

Any response in relation to the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of the information contained in the Scheme Document or any other document by which the Acquisition is made. King Shareholders are advised to read carefully the formal documentation in relation to the proposed Acquisition once the Scheme Document has been despatched to them.

This Announcement, which is published jointly by Activision Blizzard and King, is made pursuant to Rule 2.5 of the Irish Takeover Rules.

Activision Blizzard reserves the right, subject to the prior approval of the Panel, to elect to implement the Acquisition by way of an Offer in the circumstances described in and subject to the terms of the Transaction Agreement. Without limiting the provisions of the Transaction Agreement, in such event, such Offer will be implemented on terms and conditions that are at least as favourable to the King Shareholders (except for an acceptance condition set at 80% of the nominal value of the King Shares to which such an Offer relates and which are not already beneficially owned by Activision Blizzard, if any) as those which would apply in relation to the Scheme.

Pursuant to Rule 2.6(c) of the Irish Takeover Rules, this Announcement will be available to Activision Blizzard employees on activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com and to King employees on King's website, http://investor.king.com/acquisition.

A copy of the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by Activision Blizzard will be made available by Activision Blizzard free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions, on activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015. King will also make the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by King available on its website free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions at http://investor.king.com/acquisition by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015.

Neither the content of any website referred to in this Announcement nor the content of any website accessible from hyperlinks it is incorporated into, or forms part of, this Announcement.

NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION (IN WHOLE OR IN PART) IN, INTO OR FROM ANY RESTRICTED JURISDICTION

TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY MEANS OF A SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT

UNDER CHAPTER 1 OF PART 9 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2014

Activision Blizzard and King will host a conference call at 8:00 a.m. ET/New York time tomorrow, 3 November 2015, to review the Acquisition and host a question and answer session. To access the conference call, interested parties may dial 888-596-2572 (domestic callers) or 913-312-0653 (international callers). The Conference ID Number is 9960349. Participants can also listen to a live webcast of the call through the Investor Relations page of Activision Blizzard¡¯s website at investor.activision.com. During the conference call and webcast, management will review a presentation summarizing the Acquisition which can be accessed at investor.activision.com or at activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com. A webcast replay will be available for the duration of the offer period at activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com. Please call five minutes in advance to ensure that you are connected. Questions and answers will be taken only from participants on the conference call. For the webcast, please allow 15 minutes to register, download and install any necessary software.

Simultaneous with this Announcement, Activision Blizzard issued its third quarter 2015 results in a separate release. Activision Blizzard plans to address questions regarding its quarterly financial results during a separate portion of the conference call scheduled at 8:00 a.m. ET/New York time tomorrow, 3 November 2015. Activision Blizzard previously planned to issue its earnings following the close of the market tomorrow. The previously scheduled call following the markets close tomorrow has been cancelled.

King will announce third quarter 2015 results and hold its conference call for analysts and investors on 4 November 2015 as regularly scheduled.

A copy of the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by Activision Blizzard will be made available by Activision Blizzard free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions, on activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015. King will also make the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by King available on its website free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions at http://investor.king.com/acquisition by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015.

The directors of Activision Blizzard, Inc. and the sole manager of ABS Partners I, LLC (in its capacity as the general partner of ABS Partners C.V.) accept responsibility for the information contained in this Announcement other than the information relating to King, the King Group, and the directors of King and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them for which the directors of King accept responsibility. To the best of the knowledge and belief of Activision Blizzard, Inc. and the sole manager of ABS Partners I, LLC (in its capacity as the general partner of ABS Partners C.V.) (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this Announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.

The directors of King accept responsibility for the information contained in this Announcement relating to King, the King Group and the directors of King and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them (excepting information regarding Activision Blizzard¡¯s estimates, expectations, plans and projections for King and the King Group following completion of the Acquisition for which the directors of Activision Blizzard, Inc. accept responsibility). To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of King (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this Announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.

Goldman Sachs, which is authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting exclusively for Activision Blizzard and for no one else in connection with the matters set out in this Announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Activision Blizzard for affording the protections afforded to clients of Goldman Sachs or for providing advice in connection with the contents of this Announcement or any matter referred to herein.

Bank of America Merrill Lynch is acting exclusively for Activision Blizzard and for no one else in connection with the matters set out in this Announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Activision Blizzard for providing the protections afforded to its clients or for providing advice in connection with the contents of this Announcement or any matter referred to herein.

"Bank of America Merrill Lynch" is the marketing name for the global banking and global markets businesses of Bank of America Corporation. Lending, derivatives, and other commercial banking activities are performed globally by banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including Bank of America, N.A., member FDIC. Securities, strategic advisory, and other investment banking activities are performed globally by investment banking affiliates of Bank of America Corporation, including, in the United States, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, which is a registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA and SIPC, and, in other jurisdictions, locally registered entities.

J.P. Morgan Limited (which conducts its UK investment banking business as J.P. Morgan Cazenove) (¡°J.P. Morgan¡±), which is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority, is acting as financial adviser exclusively for King and no one else in connection with the matters set out in this Announcement and will not regard any other person as its client in relation to the matters in this Announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than King for providing the protections afforded to clients of J.P. Morgan or its affiliates, nor for providing advice in relation to any matter referred to herein.

King intends to file the Scheme Document with the SEC and mail a copy to its shareholders in advance of the EGM and in connection with the Acquisition and the Scheme. Shareholders are urged to read the Scheme Document carefully when it becomes available because it will contain important information about King, the Acquisition, the Scheme and related matters. Shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the Scheme Document and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC by King through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the Scheme Document from King by contacting ir@king.com.

The Acquisition relates to the securities of an Irish company which is a ¡°foreign private issuer¡± as defined under Rule 3b-4 under the Exchange Act and will be governed by the Irish Takeover Rules and Irish law. Neither the proxy solicitation rules nor the tender offer rules under the Exchange Act will apply to the Scheme of Arrangement pursuant to which the Acquisition is to be effected. The Scheme will be subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable in Ireland to schemes of arrangements, which differ from the disclosure requirements under the proxy solicitation and tender offer rules of the Exchange Act.

King is incorporated under the laws of Ireland. Some or all of the directors of King are resident in countries other than the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for U.S. holders of King Shares to effect service of process within the United States upon King or such directors of King or to enforce against any of them U.S. judgements predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It may not be possible to sue King or its officers or directors in a non-U.S. court for violations of U.S. securities laws.

Statements in this Announcement that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements about the expectations, assumptions, beliefs, plans, intentions or strategies of Activision Blizzard, King or their respective boards of directors, as the case may be, regarding the future, including, but not limited to, statements about the Acquisition described herein, benefits and synergies of the Acquisition, projections of revenues, gross bookings, expenses, income or loss, adjusted EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA margin, earnings or loss per share, cash flow or other financial items, future opportunities, anticipated business levels, future financial or operating performance, planned activities and objectives, including those related to product releases, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competition and other expectations, targets for future periods, and assumptions underlying such statements. These forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as ¡°will¡±, ¡°may¡±, ¡°could¡±, ¡°should¡±, ¡°would¡±, ¡°to be¡±, ¡°might¡±, ¡°project¡±, ¡°believe¡±, ¡°anticipate¡±, ¡°expect¡±, ¡°plan¡±, ¡°estimate¡±, ¡°forecast¡±, ¡°future¡±, ¡°positioned¡±, ¡°potential¡±, ¡°intend¡±, ¡°continue¡±, ¡°remain¡±, ¡°scheduled¡±, ¡°outlook¡±, ¡°set to¡±, ¡°subject to¡±, ¡°upcoming¡±, ¡°target¡± and variations of these words or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk, reflect Activision Blizzard and/or King management¡¯s current expectations and estimates, and are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: uncertainties as to the timing of the Acquisition; uncertainties as to whether Activision Blizzard will be able to consummate the Acquisition; uncertainties as to whether shareholders will provide the requisite approvals for the Acquisition on a timely basis or at all; the possibility that competing offers will be made; the possibility that certain conditions to the consummation of the Acquisition will not be satisfied, including without limitation obtaining the requisite approval of the Scheme of Arrangement at the Scheme Meeting; the possibility that Activision Blizzard will be unable to obtain regulatory approvals for the Acquisition on a timely basis or at all, or be required, as a condition to obtaining regulatory approvals, to accept conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition; the possibility that shareholders will file lawsuits challenging the Acquisition, including actions seeking to rescind the Scheme of Arrangement or enjoin the consummation of the Acquisition; the ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of the Acquisition; changes in relevant tax and other laws or regulations; the integration of King being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the diversion of Activision Blizzard and/or King management time and attention to issues relating to the Acquisition and integration; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) being greater than expected following the Acquisition; the difficulty retaining certain key employees of King and Activision Blizzard following the Acquisition; the possibility that Activision Blizzard may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the Acquisition within the expected time-frames or at all; the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings involving Activision Blizzard or King and the impact of any such proceedings on financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows of Activision Blizzard, King or the combined company; the possibility that costs, fees, expenses or charges Activision Blizzard and/or King incur in connection with the Acquisition are greater than expected; the possibility that the Scheme may be terminated in circumstances that require King to reimburse certain expenses to Activision Blizzard or Activision Blizzard to pay a termination fee to King related to the Acquisition; the ability of Activision Blizzard, King or the combined company to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; and changes in the economic and financial conditions of the businesses of Activision Blizzard, King, or the combined company.

In addition, with regard to Activision Blizzard, a number of important factors could cause Activision Blizzard's actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: sales levels of Activision Blizzard¡¯s titles; increasing concentration of revenue among a small number of titles; Activision Blizzard¡¯s ability to predict consumer preferences, including interest in specific genres and preferences among hardware platforms; the amount of Activision Blizzard¡¯s debt and the limitations imposed by the covenants in the agreements governing such debt; adoption rate and availability of new hardware (including peripherals) and related software, particularly during the console transitions; counterparty risks relating to customers, licensees, licensors and manufacturers; maintenance of relationships with key personnel, customers, financing providers, licensees, licensors, manufacturers, vendors, and third-party developers, including the ability to attract, retain and develop key personnel and developers that can create high quality titles; changing business models, including digital delivery of content and the increased prevalence of free-to-play games; product delays or defects; competition, including from used games and other forms of entertainment; rapid changes in technology and industry standards; possible declines in software pricing; product returns and price protection; the identification of suitable future acquisition opportunities and potential challenges associated with geographic expansion; the seasonal and cyclical nature of the interactive entertainment market; litigation risks and associated costs; protection of proprietary rights; shifts in consumer spending trends; capital market risks; applicable regulations; domestic and international economic, financial and political conditions and policies; tax rates and foreign exchange rates; and the impact of the current macroeconomic environment.

Further, with regard to King, a number of important factors could cause King's actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the fact that a relatively small number of games continue to account for a substantial majority of King¡¯s revenue and gross bookings, and declines in popularity of these games could harm King¡¯s financial results; King¡¯s ability to develop new games and enhance existing games in a timely manner; delays to the launch of new games; revenues and gross bookings from King¡¯s new games not being sufficient to offset declines due to its more mature games; market acceptance of new games and enhancements to existing games; intense industry competition; King¡¯s reliance on the casual game format and the success of its efforts to expand beyond the casual format; the need to anticipate and successfully develop games for new technologies, platforms and devices; challenges in measuring key operating metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics; reliance on various third-party platforms; reliance on key personnel; acquisition-related risks, including King¡¯s ability to integrate recent acquisitions and unforeseen difficulties in developing and introducing new games from acquired companies and customer acceptance of such games; protection or enforcement of King¡¯s intellectual property rights; the continued effectiveness of King¡¯s marketing programs; litigation risks and associated costs; risks associated with operating and offering games in multiple jurisdictions; and general economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending and foreign currency exchange rates.

In addition, actual results are subject to other risks and uncertainties that relate more broadly to Activision Blizzard¡¯s and King¡¯s overall businesses, including those identified in ¡°Risk Factors¡± included in Part I, Item 1A of Activision Blizzard¡¯s most recent annual report on Form 10-K or in Part I, Item 3.D of King¡¯s most recent annual report on Form 20-F and most recent quarterly report on Form 6-K.

Any forward-looking statements in this Announcement are based upon information available to Activision Blizzard, King and/or their respective boards of directors, as the case may be, as of the date of this Announcement and, while believed to be true when made, may ultimately prove to be incorrect. Subject to any obligations under applicable law, rules and regulations, none of Activision Blizzard, King or any member of their respective boards of directors undertakes any obligation to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, or to conform any forward-looking statement to actual results, future events, or to changes in expectations. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Activision Blizzard, King, their respective boards of directors or any person acting on behalf of any of them are expressly qualified in their entirety by this paragraph.

Activision Blizzard prepares its financial information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (¡°U.S. GAAP¡±). King prepares its financial information in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (¡°IFRS¡±) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (¡°IASB¡±). Neither Activision Blizzard nor King has made any adjustments to the King IFRS basis financial information to conform to a U.S. GAAP basis of presentation.

Both Activision Blizzard and King use non-GAAP and non-IFRS (collectively, ¡°non-GAAP¡±) measures of financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS. Refer to Appendix V for additional information on the non-GAAP measures and reconciliation to U.S. GAAP or IFRS. Trailing twelve month financial information is based on financial information through 30 September 2015 as published by Activision Blizzard and King. Estimated 2015 and 2016 measurements of financial information for Activision Blizzard and King are based on IBES estimates as of 30 October 2015.

Save for the specific information relating to King¡¯s third quarter earnings or fourth quarter outlook set out in this Announcement, no statement in this Announcement is intended to constitute a profit forecast for any period, nor should any statements be interpreted to mean that earnings or earnings per share will necessarily be greater or lesser than those for the relevant preceding financial periods for King or Activision Blizzard or ABS Partners, as appropriate. No statement in this Announcement constitutes an asset valuation.

As at close of business on 30 October 2015 King confirms that King¡¯s issued share capital is comprised of 40,000 euro deferred shares of 1.00 each and 315,541,571 King Shares (inclusive of 2,465,086 Linked Shares). The King Shares are admitted to trading on NYSE under the ticker symbol KING. The International Securities Identification Number for the King Shares is IE00BKJ9QQ58.

There are outstanding options over 23,464,158 King Shares which have been granted by King and have exercise prices ranging from $0.00008 to $31.37 per King Share and there are outstanding King RSUs over 5,617,998 King Shares.

Disclosure Requirements for Certain Holders of King Securities

Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Rules, if any person is, or becomes, ¡°interested¡± (directly or indirectly) in, 1% or more of any class of ¡°relevant securities¡± of King, all ¡°dealings¡± in any ¡°relevant securities¡± of King (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such ¡°relevant securities¡±) must be publicly disclosed by not later than 3:30 pm ET/New York time on the ¡°business day¡± following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the Effective Date or the Offer Period otherwise ends. If two or more persons co-operate on the basis of any agreement, either express or tacit, either oral or written, to acquire an ¡°interest¡± in ¡°relevant securities¡± of King, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Rules.

Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the Irish Takeover Rules, all ¡°dealings¡± in ¡°relevant securities¡± of King by Activision Blizzard or ABS Partners, or by any party acting in concert with it, must also be disclosed by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on the ¡°business¡± day following the date of the relevant transaction.

A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose ¡°relevant securities¡± ¡°dealings¡± should be disclosed, can be found on the Irish Takeover Panel¡¯s website at www.irishtakeoverpanel.ie.

¡°Interests in securities¡± arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an ¡°interest¡± by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.

Terms in quotation marks are defined in the Irish Takeover Rules, which can also be found on the Irish Takeover Panel's website.

If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a dealing under Rule 8, please consult the Irish Takeover Panel's website at www.irishtakeoverpanel.ie or contact the Irish Takeover Panel on telephone number +353 1 678 9020 or fax number +353 1 678 9289.

This Announcement is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell, subscribe for or exchange, or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell, subscribe for or exchange or an invitation to purchase, sell, subscribe for or exchange any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. This Announcement does not constitute a prospectus or an equivalent document and it is not intended to and does not constitute or form any part of an offer or invitation to sell or purchase or subscribe for any securities or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise.

The release, publication or distribution of this Announcement in or into certain jurisdictions may be restricted by the laws of those jurisdictions, including any Restricted Jurisdictions. Accordingly, copies of this Announcement and all other documents relating to the Acquisition are not being, and must not be, released, published, mailed or otherwise forwarded, distributed or sent in, into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction. Persons receiving such documents (including, without limitation, nominees, trustees and custodians) should observe these restrictions. Failure to do so may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the companies involved in the Acquisition disclaim any responsibility or liability for the violations of any such restrictions by any person.

This Announcement has been prepared for the purposes of complying with Irish law and the Irish Takeover Rules and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this Announcement had been prepared in accordance with the laws and regulations of any jurisdiction outside Ireland.

The full text of the conditions to which the Acquisition is subject and reference to certain further terms of the Acquisition are set out in Appendix I.

Any response in relation to the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of the information contained in the Scheme Document or any other document by which the Acquisition is made. King Shareholders are advised to read carefully the formal documentation in relation to the proposed Acquisition once the Scheme Document has been despatched to them.

This Announcement, which is published jointly by Activision Blizzard and King, is made pursuant to Rule 2.5 of the Irish Takeover Rules.

Activision Blizzard reserves the right, subject to the prior approval of the Panel, to elect to implement the Acquisition by way of an Offer in the circumstances described in and subject to the terms of the Transaction Agreement. Without limiting the provisions of the Transaction Agreement, in such event, such Offer will be implemented on terms and conditions that are at least as favourable to the King Shareholders (except for an acceptance condition set at 80% of the nominal value of the King Shares to which such an Offer relates and which are not already beneficially owned by Activision Blizzard if any) as those which would apply in relation to the Scheme.

Pursuant to Rule 2.6(c) of the Irish Takeover Rules, this Announcement will be available to Activision Blizzard employees on activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com and to King employees on King's website, http://investor.king.com/acquisition.

A copy of the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by Activision Blizzard will be made available by Activision Blizzard free of charge, subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions, on activisionblizzard.acquisitionoffer.com by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015. King will also make the Announcement and the documents required to be published pursuant to the Irish Takeover Rules by King available on its website free of charge subject to certain restrictions relating to persons in restricted jurisdictions at http://investor.king.com/acquisition by no later than 12 noon ET/New York time on 3 November 2015.

Neither the content of any website referred to in this Announcement nor the content of any website accessible from hyperlinks it is incorporated into, or forms part of, this Announcement.

CONDITIONS OF THE ACQUISITION AND THE SCHEME

The Acquisition and the Scheme will comply with the Irish Takeover Rules and, where relevant, the respective rules and regulations of the NYSE, NASDAQ, the Exchange Act and the Act and will be subject to the terms and conditions set out in this Announcement and to be set out in the Scheme Document. The Acquisition and the Scheme will be governed by the laws of Ireland and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Ireland.

The Acquisition and Scheme will be subject to the conditions set out in Part A of this Appendix I, including the definitions set out in Paragraph 1 of Part B of this Appendix I, which are incorporated into Part A by reference (the ¡°Conditions¡±).

For the purposes of this Appendix I:

2. Any references in the Conditions to a Condition being ¡°satisfied¡± upon receipt of any order, clearance, approval or consent from a Governmental Authority shall be construed as meaning that the foregoing have been obtained, or where appropriate, made, terminated or expired in accordance with the relevant Condition.

3. Subject to the requirements of the Panel, ABS Partners reserves the right (but shall be under no obligation) to waive, in whole or in part, all or any of the Conditions except for the Conditions set out in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.1.1 of Part A of this Appendix I.

4. The Scheme will lapse unless it is effective on or prior to the End Date or such later date (if any) as King and ABS Partners may agree and (if required) the Panel and the High Court may allow.

5. If ABS Partners is required to make an offer for King Shares under the provisions of Rule 9 of the Irish Takeover Rules, ABS Partners may make such alterations to any of the Conditions set out above as are necessary to comply with the provisions of that Rule.

6. As required by Rule 12 (b)(i) of the Irish Takeover Rules, to the extent that the Acquisition would give rise to a concentration with an EU dimension within the scope of the EU Merger Regulation, the Acquisition shall, except as otherwise approved by the Panel, lapse if the European Commission initiates proceedings in respect of that concentration under Article 6(1)(c) of the EU Merger Regulation or refers the concentration to a competent authority of a Member State under Article 9(1) of the EU Merger Regulation prior to the date of the Court Meeting.

7. ABS Partners reserves the right, subject to the consent of the Panel, to elect to implement the Acquisition by way of a Takeover Offer as described in Clause 3.6 of the Transaction Agreement. Without limiting Clause 3.6 of the Transaction Agreement, in such event, such offer will be implemented on terms and conditions that are as least as favourable to the King Shareholders (except for an acceptance condition set at 80% of the nominal value of the King Shares to which such an offer relates and which are not already in the beneficial ownership of ABS Partners so far as applicable) as those which would apply in relation to the Scheme.

In this Announcement, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, the following sources and bases have been used:

1. Certain figures included in this Announcement have been subjected to rounding adjustments.

2. Financial and other information concerning the King Group and the Activision Blizzard Group has been extracted from published sources or from audited and unaudited financial results of the King Group and/or Activision Blizzard Group available in their respective filings with, or submissions to, the SEC.

3. Activision Blizzard prepares its financial information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (¡°U.S. GAAP¡±). King prepares its financial information in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (¡°IFRS¡±) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (¡°IASB¡±). No adjustments have been made to the King IFRS basis financial information to conform to a U.S. GAAP basis of presentation.

4. Both Activision Blizzard and King use non-GAAP and non-IFRS (collectively, ¡°non-GAAP¡±) measures of financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with US GAAP or IFRS. Refer to Appendix V for additional information on the non-GAAP measures and reconciliation to U.S. GAAP or IFRS. Trailing twelve month financial information is based on financial information through 30 September 2015.

5. The value of the existing entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of King is based upon the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of 315,541,571 King Shares as at 30 October 2015 (being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Announcement).

6. The Closing Price, share volumes and volume-weighted average Closing Price per King Share is based on share prices from Bloomberg L.P., as reported on www.bloomberg.com.

7. References to the arrangements in place between King and Activision Blizzard regarding a transaction agreement are sourced from the Transaction Agreement.

8. Monthly Active Users (¡°MAUs¡±) is derived from public information published by Activision Blizzard and King, and the information provided is as of 30 September 2015. Amounts are aggregated when presenting information for the player network for both companies.

8.1 Activision Blizzard defines MAUs are the number of individuals who played a particular game in a given month. MAUs are calculated in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing by the number of months in the period. An individual who plays two of Activision Blizzard¡¯s games would be counted as two users. For Activision Publishing MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users due to technical limitations. For Blizzard MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as one user.

8.2 King defines MAUs as the number of individuals who played a particular game in the 30-day period ending with the measurement date. MAUs are calculated by adding the total number of active users as of the end of each month in a given period and dividing by the number of months in the period.

9. King defines Daily Active Users (¡°DAUs¡±) as the number of individuals who played one of its games during a particular day. Average DAUs are calculated by adding the total number of DAUs for each day in a period and dividing by the number of days in the period.

10. King defines Monthly Unique Payers (¡°MUPs¡±) as the number of unique individuals who made a purchase of a virtual currency at least once on a particular platform in the 30-day period ending with the measurement date. Average MUPs are calculated by adding the total number of unique payers as of the end of each month in a period and dividing by the number of months in the period. King does not de-duplicate user data for users who play its games on multiple devices or platforms. This is consistent with industry practice.

11. King calculates Monthly Gross Average Bookings per Paying User (¡°MGABPPU¡±) by dividing (i) King¡¯s total gross bookings in a given period, by (ii) the number of months in that period, divided by, (iii) the average number of MUPs during the period.

12. King¡¯s Monthly Unique Users (¡°MUUs¡±) are derived from public information published by King as of 30 September 2015. MUUs are the number of unique individuals who played any of King¡¯s games on a particular platform in the 30-day period ending with the measurement date. Average MUUs are calculated by adding the total number of unique users as of the end of each month in a given period and dividing by the number of months in the period. King does not de-duplicate user data for users who play its games on multiple devices or platforms. This is consistent with industry practice.

13. Activision Blizzard title and franchise performance rankings are based on The NPD Group, GfK Chart-TrackIDG, PWC and Niko.

14. King title and franchise performance rankings are based on AppAnnie and internal estimates.

15. 2016E non-GAAP revenue and earnings per share accretion is based on International Brokers¡¯ Estimate System (IBES) Consensus estimates as of 30 October 2015. Assumes $2.3 billion of incremental term loan financing at 3.25% interest rate based on Activision Blizzard current term loan interest rate and U.S. marginal tax rate of 36.3%. Assumes transaction closes on 31 March 2016 and additional dilutive share impact to EPS of 5 million shares from Activision Blizzard¡¯s internal estimate of conversion equity based on outstanding options, restricted shares, and restricted stock units of King as of 30 October 2015 (i.e., no further assumption of exercises, vesting, grants of equity awards post 30 October 2015). Does not include any synergies.

16. Estimated 2015 adjusted EBITDA is based on International Brokers¡¯ Estimate System (IBES) Consensus estimates for FY 2015E as of 30 October 2015. Does not include any synergies.

17. Estimated 2016 free cash flow per share is based on internal estimates.

18. Cash consideration of approximately $3.6 billion payable by Activision Blizzard under the terms of the Acquisition that will be funded by offshore cash on the balance sheet is based on an $18.00 share transaction price for all shares outstanding as of 30 October 2015 and assumes any outstanding equity awards that are vested and exercisable prior to a transaction close date of 30 June 2016 will be exercised and treated as a share outstanding. The cash also considers estimated financing fees for the debt issuance, including all potential flex terms.

19. Information regarding the top five highest-grossing mobile games in the U.S. is across Apple App Store and Google Play Store for the three consecutive quarters in 2015.

20. The sources and uses of the Cash Consideration for the Acquisition are set out below. In addition, a capitalisation table for both Activision Blizzard and the combined company (including Activision Blizzard¡¯s EBITDA multiples) is set out below:

2Cash as of 30 September 2015; Adjusted EBITDA as of Trailing Twelve Months ended 30 September 2015; please see disclosures in Appendix V for reconciliations to Activision Blizzard GAAP and King IFRS.

3Combined cash and investments position taking into account of the usage of cash and debt raised for the Acquisition.

4Activision Blizzard as of 30 October 2015 per Bloomberg. Combined market capitalization is the sum of Activision Blizzard market capitalization as of 30 October 2015 and the estimated $189M of transaction equity consideration.

1. King's preliminary gross bookings, adjusted revenue, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, MAUs, MUUs, DAUs, MUPs and MGABPPUs for third quarter 2015 (together with its prior third quarter 2015 gross bookings outlook, and its gross bookings outlook for fourth quarter1 is as follows:

1Gross bookings, Adj. Revenue, Adj. EBITDA and Adj. EBITDA margin are financial measures not calculated in accordance with IFRS. See Appendix V for details. Please also see Appendix II for definitions of MAUs, MUUs, DAUs, MUPs and MGABPPU.

2. Activision Blizzard¡¯s and King¡¯s estimated sources of revenues by platform and channel, based on historical IFRS revenues for King and non-GAAP revenues for Activision Blizzard, third quarter 2015 TTM revenues by platform and channel are set out below:

1Estimated based in Trailing Twelve Months ended 30 September 2015. Activision Blizzard non-GAAP Revenues. King IFRS Revenues. See disclosures in Appendix V for reconciliations to Activision Blizzard GAAP.

Distribution relates to Activision Blizzard standalone Distribution segment, which engages in the business of distribution of interactive entertainment software and hardware product.

3. King has plans to launch a mid-core title and three new games from existing franchises by end of 2016. In third quarter 2015, King had 1.4 billion games played daily, the Candy Crush franchise had 92 million DAUs, Farm Heroes had 18 million DAUs, Pet Rescue had 8 million DAUs and Bubble Witch had 7 million DAUs.

1. In this Announcement, save where the context clearly requires otherwise, the following expressions shall have the following meanings:

¡°Acquisition¡± means the proposed acquisition of King by ABS Partners by means of the Scheme (as it may be revised, amended or extended from time to time) pursuant to the Transaction Agreement;

¡°Act¡± means the Irish Companies Act 2014 and all enactments which are to be read as one with, or construed or read together as one with, the Irish Companies Act 2014;

¡°Acting in Concert¡± shall have the meaning given to that term in the Irish Takeover Panel Act;

¡°Activision Blizzard Board¡± means the board of directors of Activision Blizzard;

¡°Activision Blizzard Group¡± means, collectively, Activision Blizzard and all of its Subsidiaries;

¡°Cancellation Record Time¡± means the date and time specified in the Scheme Document as the ¡°Cancellation Record Time¡±;

¡°Capital Reduction¡± means the proposed reduction of King¡¯s share capital under Sections 84 to 86 of the Act, associated with the cancellation of the Scheme Shares;

¡°Cash Consideration¡± means US$18.00 in cash per King Share cancelled pursuant to the Scheme;

¡°Closing Price¡± means, with respect to any Trading Day, the last price at which a King Share traded during a regular trading session on the NYSE on such day, as reported based on share prices from Bloomberg;

¡°Concert Parties¡± means, in relation to any Party, such persons as are deemed to be Acting in Concert with that Party pursuant to Rule 3.3 of Part A of the Irish Takeover Rules and such persons as are Acting in Concert with that Party;

¡°Court Order¡± means the order or orders of the High Court sanctioning the Scheme under Section 453 of the Act and confirming the related Capital Reduction that forms part of it under Sections 84 and 85 of the Act;

¡°Effective¡± means the Scheme having become effective pursuant to its terms;

¡°Effective Date¡± means the date on which the Acquisition becomes Effective;

¡°EGM¡± means the extraordinary general meeting of King Shareholders (and any adjournment thereof) to be convened in connection with the Scheme, expected to be convened as soon as the Scheme Meeting shall have been concluded or adjourned (it being understood that if the Scheme Meeting is adjourned, the EGM shall be correspondingly adjourned);

¡°EGM Resolutions¡± means the resolutions to be proposed at the EGM for the purposes of approving and implementing the Scheme, the Capital Reduction, changes to the Articles of Association of King and such other matters as King reasonably determines to be necessary for the purposes of implementing the Acquisition or, subject to the consent of Activision Blizzard (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), desirable for the purposes of implementing the Scheme or the Acquisition;

¡°End Date¡± is the date that is six months after the date of this Announcement or, if later, the date that is four months after Activision Blizzard¡¯s election to implement the Acquisition by way of an Offer pursuant to Clause 3.6 of the Transaction Agreement; provided, that if as of such date all Conditions as set out in Appendix 1 of this Announcement (other than the Conditions set out at paragraphs 2.3, 2.4, 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.6) have been satisfied (or, in the sole discretion of the applicable party, waived (where permissible)) or would be satisfied (or, in the sole discretion of the applicable party, waived (where permissible)) if the Acquisition were completed on such date, the ¡°End Date¡± shall be the date that is nine months after the date of this Announcement (or such earlier date as may be specified by the Panel, or such later date as ABS Partners and King may, with (if required) the consent of the Panel, agree and (if required) the High Court may allow);

¡°Exchange Act¡± means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;

¡°Expenses Reimbursement Agreement¡± means the expenses reimbursement agreement dated 2 November 2015 between Activision Blizzard and King, the terms of which have been approved by the Panel, as described in paragraph 13 of this Announcement;

¡°Final Recommendation Change Notice¡± means the written notice issued by the King Board to Activision Blizzard where it has determined in good faith (after consultation with King's financial advisors and outside legal counsel) that a King Alternative Proposal continues to constitute a King Superior Proposal having first notified and consulted with Activision Blizzard on the King Alternative Proposal including affording Activision Blizzard the opportunity to revise the terms and conditions of the Acquisition and/or increase or modify the Cash Consideration;

¡°GAAP¡± or ¡°U.S. GAAP¡± means accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

¡°Goldman Sachs¡± means Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Goldman Sachs International (in their capacity as financial advisor);

¡°IFRS¡± means international financial reporting standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board;

¡°Individual Option and Subscription Agreement¡± means the agreement or agreements governing a Pre-IPO King Option and a subscription for Linked Shares in respect of that option;

¡°Ireland¡± means the island of Ireland, excluding the counties of Antrim, Armagh, Derry, Down, Fermanagh and Tyrone on the island of Ireland, and the word ¡°Irish¡± shall be construed accordingly;

¡°J.P. Morgan¡± means J.P. Morgan Limited (which conducts its UK investment banking business as J.P Morgan Cazenove);

¡°King Alternative Proposal¡± means any bona fide proposal or bona fide offer, which proposal or offer may be subject to due diligence, definitive documentation or both, made by any person (other than a proposal or offer pursuant to Rule 2.5 of the Irish Takeover Rules by Activision Blizzard or any of its Concert Parties) for:

(a) a merger, reorganization, share exchange, consolidation, business combination, recapitalization, dissolution, liquidation or similar transaction involving King that, if consummated, would result in any Person beneficially owning shares with more than 20% of the voting power of King;

(b) the direct or indirect acquisition by any Person of more than 20% of the value of the assets of the King Group, taken as a whole; or

(c) the direct or indirect acquisition by any Person of more than 20% of the voting power or the issued share capital of King, including any offer or exchange offer that if consummated would result in any Person beneficially owning shares with more than 20% of the voting power of King;

¡°King Board¡± means the board of directors of King from time to time and for the time being;

¡°King Directors¡± mean the members of the King Board;

¡°King Group¡± means King and all of its Subsidiaries;

¡°King Option¡± means a Pre-IPO King Option or an option to subscribe for King Shares granted under the King 2014 Plan;

¡°King Restricted Share Award¡± means an award of King Shares (other than Linked Shares) that were acquired by means of subscription and, as of the Effective Time, are subject to restrictions, including restrictions on transfer and/or a risk of forfeiture;

¡°King RSU¡± means a restricted stock unit issued under the King 2014 Plan, including a restricted stock unit issued to an employee of King in China that by its terms is to be settled only in cash;

¡°King Shareholders¡± mean the holders of King Shares;

¡°King Share(s)¡± means the existing unconditionally allotted or issued and fully paid ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$0.00008 each in the capital of King and any further such shares which are unconditionally allotted or issued before the date on which the Scheme is effective;

¡°King Share Awards¡± means the King RSU Awards and the King Restricted Share Awards;

¡°King Share Plans¡± means the King 2014 Plan, the Pre-IPO Option Agreements, the Restricted Share Award Agreements and the Individual Option and Subscription Agreements;

¡°Linked Shares¡± means King Shares that are not transferable by the holder and are held subject to the terms of an Individual Option and Subscription Agreement;

¡°Meetings¡± mean the Scheme Meeting and the EGM, and Meeting means either of them as the context requires;

¡°Offer¡± or ¡°Takeover Offer¡± means an offer in accordance with Clause 3.6 of the Transaction Agreement for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of King, including any amendment or revision thereto pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, the full terms of which would be set out in the Takeover Offer Documents;

¡°Offer Period¡± means the period commencing on 2 November 2015 and ending on the earlier of the date on which the Acquisition becomes Effective and the date on which the Acquisition lapses or is withdrawn (or such other date at the Panel may decide or the Irish Takeover Rules dictate);

¡°Parties¡± means King, Activision Blizzard and ABS Partners, and ¡°Party¡± shall mean either King, on the one hand, or Activision Blizzard or ABS Partners (whether individually or collectively) on the other hand (as the context requires);

¡°Person¡± or ¡°person¡± means an individual, group (including a ¡°group¡± under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act), corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organisation or other entity or any relevant governmental authority or any department, agency or political subdivision thereof;

¡°Pre-IPO King Option¡± means an option to subscribe for King Shares granted prior to 26 March 2014;

¡°Proposals¡± means the Scheme and other matters relevant thereto to be considered by King Shareholders at the Meetings;

¡°Registrar of Companies¡± means the Registrar of Companies in Dublin, Ireland as defined in Section 2 of the Act;

¡°Relevant Securities¡± has the meaning assigned to it by the Irish Takeover Rules;

¡°Resolutions¡± means, collectively, the Scheme Meeting Resolution and the EGM Resolutions, which will be set out in the Scheme Document;

¡°Restricted Jurisdiction¡± means any jurisdiction in, into or from which the release, publishing or distribution of this Announcement in whole or in part would or might infringe the laws of that jurisdiction or would or might require compliance with any governmental or other consent or any registration or other formality that either party is unable to comply with or regards as unduly onerous to comply with;

¡°Scheme¡± or ¡°Scheme of Arrangement¡± means the proposed scheme of arrangement under Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Act and the related capital reduction under Sections 84 and 85 of the Act to effect the Acquisition pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, on the terms (including the conditions to the Scheme and the Acquisition) and for the consideration set out in this Announcement and on such other terms and in such form not being inconsistent therewith as the Parties mutually agree in writing, including any revision thereof as may be so agreed between the Parties;

¡°Scheme Document¡± means a document comprising the scheme document (including any amendments or supplements thereto) to be distributed to King Shareholders and, for information only, to holders of King Options or King Share Awards, containing:

(e) the notice or notices of the Scheme Meeting and the EGM;

(f) an explanatory statement as required by Section 452 of the Act with respect to the Scheme;

(g) such other information as may be required or necessary pursuant to the Act, the Exchange Act or the Irish Takeover Rules; and

(h) such other information as King and Activision Blizzard shall agree, each acting reasonably;

¡°Scheme Meeting¡± means the meeting or meetings of the King Shareholders or, if applicable, any class of King Shareholders (as may be directed by the High Court pursuant to Section 450(5) of the Act) (and any adjournment of any such meeting or meetings) convened by (i) resolution of the King Board or (ii) order of the High Court, in either case pursuant to Section 450 of the Act, to consider and vote on the Scheme Meeting Resolution;

¡°Scheme Meeting Resolution¡± means the resolution to be considered and voted on at the Scheme Meeting proposing that the Scheme, with or without amendment (but subject to such amendment being acceptable to each of King and Activision Blizzard, except for a technical or procedural amendment which is required for the proper implementation of the Scheme and does not have a substantive consequence on the implementation of the Scheme), be agreed to;

¡°Scheme Record Time¡± means the date and time specified in the Scheme Document as the ¡°Scheme Record Time¡±;

¡°Scheme Shareholders¡± mean the holders of the Scheme Shares immediately prior to the Effective Date;

(a) the King Shares in issue at the date of the Scheme Document;

(b) any King Shares issued after the date of the Scheme Document and before the Voting Record Time;

(c) any King Shares issued at or after the Voting Record Time and before the Scheme Record Time, either on terms that the original or any subsequent holders of such shares shall be bound by the Scheme, or in respect of which the original or any subsequent holders of such shares are, or shall have agreed in writing to be, bound by the Scheme; and

(d) the King Shares issued at or after the Cancellation Record Time and at or before the Scheme Record Time;

¡°Subsidiary¡± and ¡°Subsidiary Undertaking¡± mean in relation to any person, any corporation, partnership, association, trust or other form of legal entity of which such person directly or indirectly owns securities or other equity interests representing more than 50% of the aggregate voting power;

¡°Trading Day¡± means any day on which the NYSE is open for business;

¡°Transaction Agreement¡± means the transaction agreement entered into between King, ABS Partners and Activision Blizzard dated 2 November 2015 relating to, amongst other things, the implementation of the Acquisition as described in paragraph 12 of this Announcement;

¡°U.S.¡± or ¡°United States¡± means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States of America and the District of Columbia, and all other areas subject to its jurisdiction;

¡°US$¡±, ¡°$¡± or ¡°USD¡±, means United States dollars, the lawful currency of the United States of America; and

¡°Voting Record Time¡± means the time and date to be specified as the voting record time for the Scheme Meeting (or any adjournment thereof) in the Scheme Document.

2. All amounts contained within this Announcement referred to by ¡°¡± and ¡°c¡± refer to the euro and cent and amounts contained within this Announcement referred to by ¡°US $¡± or ¡°$¡± refer to the U.S. dollar amounts.

3. Any reference to any provision of any legislation shall include any amendment, modification, re-enactment or extension thereof. Any reference to any legislation is to Irish legislation unless specified otherwise.

4. Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine or neutral gender.

5. All times referred to are Irish time unless otherwise stated.

As a supplement to Activision Blizzard¡¯s financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, Activision Blizzard presents certain non-GAAP measures of financial performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the items associated with Activision Blizzard¡¯s results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP.

Activision Blizzard provides net revenues, net income (loss), earnings (loss) per share and operating margin data and guidance both including (in accordance with GAAP) and excluding (non-GAAP) certain items. When relevant, Activision Blizzard also provides constant FX information to provide a framework for assessing how its underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. In addition, Activision Blizzard provides EBITDA (defined as GAAP net income (loss) before interest (income) expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) and adjusted EBITDA (defined as non-GAAP operating margin (see non-GAAP financial measure below) before depreciation). The non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items, as applicable in any given reporting period:
 the change in deferred revenues and related cost of sales with respect to certain of Activision Blizzard¡¯s online-enabled games;
 the amortization of intangibles from purchase price accounting;
 fees and other expenses (including legal fees, costs, expenses and accruals) related to the acquisition of 429 million shares of Activision Blizzard¡¯s common stock on 11 October 2013 from Vivendi, pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated 25 July 2013 and the $4.75 billion debt financings related thereto; and
 the income tax adjustments associated with any of the above items.

In the future, Activision Blizzard may also consider whether other items should also be excluded in calculating the non-GAAP financial measures used by Activision Blizzard. Activision Blizzard¡¯s management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with additional useful information to measure Activision Blizzard¡¯s financial and operating performance. In particular, the measures facilitate comparison of operating performance between periods and help investors to better understand the operating results of Activision Blizzard by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of Activision Blizzard¡¯s core business, operating results or future outlook. Internally, Activision Blizzard¡¯s management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing Activision Blizzard¡¯s operating results, and measuring compliance with the requirements of Activision Blizzard¡¯s debt financing agreements, as well as in planning and forecasting.

Activision Blizzard¡¯s non-GAAP financial measures are not based on a comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, and the terms non-GAAP net revenues, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP or adjusted EBITDA do not have a standardized meaning. Therefore, other companies may use the same or similarly named measures, but exclude different items, which may not provide investors a comparable view of Activision Blizzard¡¯s performance in relation to other companies.

In addition to the reasons stated above, which are generally applicable to each of the items Activision Blizzard excludes from its non-GAAP financial measures, there are additional specific reasons why Activision Blizzard believes it is appropriate to exclude the change in deferred revenues and related cost of sales with respect to certain of Activision Blizzard¡¯s online-enabled games.

Since Activision Blizzard has determined that some of its games¡¯ online functionality represents an essential component of gameplay and, as a result, a more-than-inconsequential separate deliverable, Activision Blizzard recognize revenues attributed to these game titles over their estimated service periods, which may range from five months to a maximum of less than a year. The related cost of sales is deferred and recognized as the related revenues are recognized. Internally, management excludes the impact of this change in deferred revenues and related cost of sales in its non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating Activision Blizzard¡¯s operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of its management team. Management believes this is appropriate because doing so enables an analysis of performance based on the timing of actual transactions with Activision Blizzard¡¯s customers, which is consistent with the way Activision Blizzard is measured by investment analysts and industry data sources. In addition, excluding the change in deferred revenues and the related cost of sales provides a much more timely indication of trends in Activision Blizzard¡¯s operating results.

King uses IFRS. In addition to IFRS financials, this Announcement includes certain financial measures not based on IFRS, including gross bookings, adjusted revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA margin. These non-GAAP measures are in addition to, not a substitute for or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. The non-GAAP financial measures used by King may differ from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with IFRS. Some limitations of the non-GAAP financial measures are listed below.

Gross Bookings: Gross bookings is a non-GAAP financial measure that is not calculated in accordance with IFRS. Gross bookings is the economic benefit collected from the sale of virtual items and for access to skill tournaments. King uses gross bookings to evaluate the results of operations, generate future operating plans and assess performance. While King believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides a meaningful measurement of the business performance during a particular period because it measures the total cash spend by players in the period, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue recognized in accordance with IFRS. In addition, other companies, including companies within King¡¯s industry, may calculate gross bookings differently or not at all, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure.

Adjusted Revenue: Adjusted revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure that is not calculated in accordance with IFRS. King defines adjusted revenue as revenue adjusted to include changes in deferred revenue. King believes that adjusted revenue is a useful metric for calculating adjusted EBITDA margin and understanding its operating results and ongoing profitability.

Adjusted EBITDA: Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with IFRS. King defines adjusted EBITDA as profit (loss), adjusted for income tax expense (credit), foreign currency exchange loss (gain), acquisition-related expense (including acquisition-related contingent consideration fair value adjustments and other acquisition-related adjustments), non-operating (income) expense, net finance (income) costs, depreciation, amortization, share-based and other equity-related compensation (including social security charges associated therewith) and changes in deferred revenue. King defines adjusted EBITDA margin as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of adjusted revenue. King believes that adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin are useful metrics for investors to understand and evaluate operating results and ongoing profitability because they permit investors to evaluate recurring profitability from ongoing operating activities. King also uses these measures internally to establish forecasts, budgets and operational goals and to manage and monitor its business, as well as evaluating its ongoing and historical performance. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin have certain limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of results of operations as reported under IFRS. Other companies, including companies in King¡¯s industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently or not at all, limiting its usefulness as a direct comparative measure.

Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measure for King and GAAP measures for Activision Blizzard are included in this Appendix.