Stocks closed lower Monday in a volatile session with the Dow Jones Industrial Average swinging over 900 points as concerns about global growth resurfaced following a news report that suggested that the U.S. is about to intensify its trade war with China.

See: Dow stages biggest intraday reversal in more than 8 months; Nasdaq sees biggest U-turn in 3 years

The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.43% shed 245.39 points, or 1%, to close at 24,442.92. At its session low, it was down 566 points, and was up as much as 352 points at its intraday peak. The S&P 500 index SPX, -0.63% slid 17.44 points, or 0.7%, to 2,641.25 and the Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, -1.04% dropped 116.92 points, or 1.6%, to 7,050.29.

Read: Monday¡¯s nasty stock-market reversal is evidence that the worst is far from over for Wall Street

With the Nasdaq already in correction territory¡ªwidely defined as a pullback of 10% from a recent peak¡ªthe Dow and the S&P 500 came close, although both indexes trimmed losses ahead of the closing bell.

See: Waiting for the stock market to bottom will ¡®feel awful, like it always does¡¯

The market finished sharply lower on Friday with both the S&P and Dow turning negative for the year.

President Donald Trump¡¯s administration is prepared to announce tariffs on remaining Chinese imports if talks next month between Trump and Xi Jinping do not yield results, Bloomberg reported. Such a move is likely to prolong the standoff between the U.S. and China over trade and is expected to hurt the global economy.

Analysts are also blaming the stock market¡¯s weakness in October on a variety of factors, including worries that U.S. corporate earnings growth has peaked and fears of a U.S. monetary policy misstep by the Federal Reserve.

Earnings season has seen companies continue to beat earnings and sales expectations, but analysts said weak outlooks from some companies may have undercut performance. Through Friday, 240 S&P 500 companies had reported quarterly results, with 81% topping expectations, according to Jefferies.

What data were in focus?

Consumer spending rose 0.4% in September, matching the MarketWatch forecast. Incomes rose a smaller 0.2%, the smallest rise in 13 months, while inflationary pressures appeared to slacken. The personal-consumption expenditures inflation index, the Federal Reserve¡¯s favorite price gauge, rose 0.1% in September, while the 12-month rate slipped to 2% from 2.2%.

Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans spoke Monday morning, though he did not address monetary policy or the U.S. economic outlook. His was the last scheduled speech before a blackout period leading up to the central bank¡¯s Nov. 8 meeting, during which Fed officials are barred from commenting publicly.

What were analysts saying?

The weakness among stocks that had, until recently, underpinned the rally is hurting the market, according to Kent Engelke, chief economic strategist at Capitol Securities Management Inc.

¡°Many times I have commented about the massive ownership of a few names that have created the most imbalanced market in at least a generation. I can envision a period of time when selling in the indices¡ªled by the selling of the FAANG companies¡ªcontinues while the typical stock advances,¡± said Engelke.

FAANG is an acronym for megacap stocks, including Facebook Inc. FB, -0.92% Apple Inc. AAPL, -6.63% Amazon.com Inc. AMZN, +0.00% Netflix Inc. NFLX, -2.61% and Alphabet Inc.¡¯s Google GOOGL, -1.33% GOOG, -1.14% which have been credited with fueling the market¡¯s record gains through strong earnings growth. All five names are sharply lower.

Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Cresset Wealth Advisor, cited fading investor enthusiasm specifically for Monday¡¯s trading but elevated valuation, mixed earnings and tightening liquidity as major factors driving market¡¯s action recently.

Michael Arone, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors, argued that earlier gains were due to economic data indicating that ¡°inflation is slower than we thought,¡± including a print of the PCE inflation index showing that yearly price growth fell from August to September. ¡°This has investors optimistic that the Fed won¡¯t raise rates as aggressively next year as they have been signaling,¡± he told MarketWatch.

However, ¡°It¡¯s a little too early to call the ¡®all clear,¡¯¡± Arone warned. ¡°Macro issues will continue to pose challenges to stocks over the next few weeks. It would be helpful if we continue to get some data that justifies the decline in rate-hike expectations, or some news that shows thawing in the U.S-China trade conflict.¡±

What stocks were in focus?

Shares of Boeing Co. BA, -1.47% fell 6.6% to be the biggest decliner in the Dow, subtracting nearly 161 points from the blue-chip gauge. Boeing shares have been sensitive to trade-related headlines. Also, a Lion Air 737 MAX 8 crashed with 188 people on board

Shares of Red Hat Inc. RHT, -0.09% jumped 45% after International Business Machines Corp. IBM, -0.99% said it would acquire the open-source software company for $190 a share in a cash deal. Shares of IBM were off 4.1%.

See: Software stocks jump as analysts bet ¡®surge of cloud M&A¡¯ could follow IBM/Red Hat

Northrop Grumman NOC, +0.24% announced a $1 billion accelerated stock repurchase agreement with Goldman Sachs & Co. GS, +1.20% Nevertheless, shares in the defense contractor were down 5%

Shares of Ford Motor Co. F, +0.97% rallied 3.3% following a report China was considering a potential car-tax cut. General Motors Co. GM, -1.21% was also buoyed by the news, up 1.5%. Ford was also boosted after Goldman Sachs raised its rating on the stock to buy from neutral and lifted its price target to $12 a share, up 34% from Friday¡¯s close.

Also boosted by the report on Chinese auto tariffs was Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, GT, -1.24% which rose 3.4% and many auto parts suppliers, led by Adient PLC ADNT, -0.62%

First Data Corp. FDC, -1.06% shares slumped 17% after the company reduced guidance for full-year 2018 revenue.

Take Two Interactive Software TTWO, -0.42% is among the biggest losers, skidding 7% after U.K. sales numbers of its flagship game, Red Dead Redemption 2, failed to wow investors.

How were other markets trading?

Asian markets were down on the day, as the Shanghai Composite Index SHCOMP, +2.70% Shenzhen Composite Index 399106, +3.43% and Nikkei 225 NIK, +2.56% all fell on concerns over U.S.-China trade relations.

European stocks rose as the Stoxx Europe 600 SXXP, +0.28% and U.K. FTSE 100 UKX, -0.29% both gained.

Oil futures CLZ8, -0.24% extended losses after three weeks of declines. Gold GCZ8, +0.19% settled lower, while the U.S. dollar DXY, +0.21% edged up.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.