Mike Tomczak is the answer to a trivia question so obscure he didn¡¯t realize it.

The former journeyman quarterback, and a member of the Super Bowl XX Bears, is the last Packers quarterback to start against the Bears before Aaron Rodgers or Brett Favre. It has been nearly 26 years since Tomczak started for the Packers in a Dec. 8, 1991 game at Soldier Field, a 27-13 victory for the Bears. Tomczak made 73 career starts ¡ª 42 after he left the Bears ¡ª but this was the only one against his original team.

Of the Bears current roster, 24 players were not born when that game was played. Rodgers and Favre combined to start the last 52 games in the series against the Bears, postseason included, a streak that will end Sunday at Soldier Field when Brett Hundley starts in place of Rodgers, who is recovering from surgery to repair his broken right collarbone.

¡°What do I get for that?¡± Tomczak said Tuesday. ¡°A ticket to the game? That¡¯s incredible. Hats off to those two quarterbacks. I remember (Steve) McMichael sacking me and talking (crap) along with Trace Armstrong.¡±

Jim Harbaugh was the starter for the Bears that day and there was an underlying subplot to the game. The two had had a beef since a 1989 exhibition against the Chargers when Harbaugh allegedly relayed Bears¡¯ signals to new San Diego quarterback Jim McMahon on the opposite sideline. At one point, the possibility of a slander lawsuit was raised.

After the 1991 game, Harbaugh said they met at midfield and he said, ¡°Could we bury the hatchet? He just nodded and shook hands.¡± Asked about it in the locker room afterward, Tomczak replied, ¡°Who?¡±

¡°He went to Michigan unfortunately and there was probably some Ohio State-Michigan animosity,¡± a laughing Tomczak said. ¡°No, we matured greatly since that (1989) incident. Or at least I did.¡±

The Packers are reeling since the loss of Rodgers Oct. 15, when Rodgers was injured on a hit from Vikings linebacker Anthony Barr. The Packers (4-4) have lost three straight and the Lions defeated them soundly were soundly defeated 30-17 Monday night at Lambeau Field, a game that wasn¡¯t as close as the score indicates.

The offense is completely disjointed without Rodgers and the downfield passing game has been little more than a rumor with Hundley. It didn¡¯t help that the defense was so porous the Lions went without a punt in a game for the first time since 1971.

Hundley completed 26 of 38 passes for 245 yards with no touchdowns or interceptions against the Lions. The numbers don¡¯t tell the story. Too often he fled the pocket when there wasn¡¯t pressure. He struggled with throws into tight windows. He just missed on a couple of deep balls. The difference without Rodgers on the field is striking as receivers like Jordy Nelson (four catches, 35 yards) and Davante Adams (seven catches, 53 yards) are minimized as big-play targets. The longest completion was 46 yards to Randall Cobb as he caught the Lions out of position on a short crossing route.

¡°I have great faith in Brett,¡± Packers coach Mike McCarthy said. ¡°Brett is not our issue right now. There are some very lopsided statistics. Look close at those. They told the story. I believe in Brett and that¡¯s not just a press conference statement. He has what it takes. He has it in his body, he has it in his mind and he definitely has the heart.¡±

Questions about Hundley¡¯s accuracy and ability to process an NFL offense caused him to drop to the fifth round in 2015 after a record-setting career as a three-year starter for UCLA. No backup in the league has the mind to play the game near the level of Rodgers, who dissects defenses pre-snap and then improvises better than any quarterback in the league post-snap, attributes the Bears know all too well.

The Packers mixed in some zone reads for Hundley against the Lions and he carried four times for 22 yards, scoring on a 1-yard sneak. The Bears could see more of Hundley running but he needs to be better in the pocket to lift up the offense. Criticism of McCarthy after Hundley¡¯s first start in a loss to the Saints was that the offense was too buttoned up. Hundley didn¡¯t really look to throw downfield until the second half when the Lions led by double-digits.

¡°I felt really comfortable to be completely honest,¡± Hundley said. ¡°Obviously, I didn¡¯t play well enough to win. That¡¯s my only concern and my only goal. We called shots (downfield). It was great called game. But the way (the Lions) played their defense, they weren¡¯t giving up shots. They were giving up the underneath stuff. If they¡¯re giving it up, you have to take it.¡±

The earliest Rodgers could return from injured reserve is the Week 15 meeting with the Panthers on Dec. 17. That might be a stretch and the Packers are sure to err on the side of caution, especially if they¡¯re no longer in the playoff mix.

¡°I didn¡¯t know what to expect with Aaron out,¡± Adams said. ¡°Had no clue. We have four (victories). We¡¯re still not done. We¡¯ll see how everything pans out.¡±

Said left tackle David Bakhtiari: ¡°Twelve is 12. He can make a lot happen. He can do a lot of amazing things. Without him, we have to find a way. We have to find what makes us now, create our own identity and find it outside of No. 12.¡±