Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, has indicated that an independent Scotland would need to build up billions of pounds worth of currency reserves if it did not agree a currency union with the UK.

Under tough questioning from the Treasury Committee this afternoon, Carney indicated that an independent country which used another country¡¯s currency in an informal arrangement needs substantial reserves, to ensure that the arrangement is credible.

While trying to avoid saying anything new ahead of next week¡¯s vote, Carney cited the example of the Baltic states who hold reserves worth around 25% of their GDP.

Given the Scottish economy is around 146bn (including the oil industry), this suggests that reserves totalling around 36bn would be needed if Scotland chose ¡®sterlingisation¡¯ - ie, using the pound without a currency deal.

The governor indicated that Scotland could start independence with around 15bn of reserves, depending on negotiations ahead of break-up.

The difference would probably have to come from increased taxation and reduced spending, suggested committee chairman Andrew Tyrie.

John Thurso MP cited Hong Kong as an alternative example, arguing that Scotland would need 45bn of reserves.

Carney declined to give a figure. But he did agree to hand over the Bank of England¡¯s work on currency sharing schemes first thing on Thursday morning, to show what level of reserves are needed.

Carney explained to MPs that ¡®sterlingisation¡¯ would require three elements to be successful:
 a credible lender of last resort, and a credible deposit protection scheme



And the amount of reserves needed can be larger if a country has a large, or complex, financial system, Carney added.

The governor warned that there could be problems if the two countries in question were diverging, rather than converging.



Carney also told MPs that the Bank of England has drawn up contingency plans to handle a Yes vote next week. He declined to say what they are, but indicated that they would tackle the risks of capital flight.

Scottish banks still have access to Bank of England facilities, and that Scottish deposits are backed by financial services compensation scheme, Carney explained, adding: