Germany¡¯s blue-chip benchmark is due to rebound after slumping below 12,000 this summer, according to Capital Economics.

¡°We think that the prospects for German large-cap equities during the remainder of 2017 are quite bright, despite their pullback over the past two months,¡± said John Higgins, chief markets economist at Capital Economics, in a note Tuesday.

¡°Admittedly, we are revising down our end-year forecast for the DAX 30, from 13,500 to 12,750. But our new projection still implies a rebound of 5% between now and the end of the year,¡± he said.

The DAX 30 DAX, +0.44% ¡ª home to well-known exporters such as car maker BMW BMW, +1.76% drug heavyweight Bayer AG BAYN, +0.50% and industrial conglomerate Siemens AG SIE, +0.90% SIEGY, +1.20% ¡ª has declined more than 5% since notching a record close of 12,888.95 on June 19. On Aug. 11, the benchmark fell below the 12,000 mark for the first time since April.

Also that day the DAX dropped below its 200-day moving average earlier this month during a European selloff spurred by heightened tensions between the U.S. and North Korea. Many chart watchers consider the 200-day moving average as a dividing line between longer-term uptrends and downtrends.

¡°We doubt that the recent pullback in the DAX 30 is a sign of things to come, though. One reason is our forecast that the [euro/dollar] exchange rate will edge back down in the second half of 2017,¡± the economist said.

¡°Another reason is our view that the outlook for the German economy remains rosy,¡± he added.

The DAX had jumped 12% from the start of 2017 through its June peak despite a simultaneous rise of nearly 6% in the euro against the U.S. dollar EURUSD, +0.0527% . A stronger euro can make European exports more expensive for overseas clients to buy. As well, euro strength can eat into earnings logged by foreign subsidiaries of German multinational companies.

The euro¡¯s climb had reflected a hunt for eurozone assets by foreign investors who saw brighter prospects for regional economic recovery, Higgins said. He noted that net foreign purchases of equities of around 230 billion in the first six months of the year outstripped any other half year since the euro¡¯s inception in 1999.

Read: Why export powerhouse Germany is ¡®euphoric¡¯ even with a soaring euro

But the euro has continued to fly higher, largely on expectations the European Central Bank will soon begin tapering its stimulus measures. The shared currency has now bulked up by 12% year-to-date against the greenback to above $1.18.

Capital Economics foresees the euro moving down to $1.15.

¡°On the one hand, we think that the ECB will continue to stress that its tapering will be slow and that rate hikes remain a long way off. On the other hand, we suspect that the Fed will spring a bit of a surprise by raising rates again in December after starting to normalize its balance sheet this autumn,¡± he said.

A country¡¯s currency tends to rise in value on the prospects of higher interest rates.

On Friday, investors will receive the final reading on Germany¡¯s gross domestic product in the second quarter.

¡°Although some surveys suggest that the economy has a lost a bit of momentum, they generally indicate that it will continue to perform quite strongly,¡± said Higgins. ¡°What¡¯s more, the fact that the eurozone as a whole now appears to be faring well should provide a fillip for German exports, even if the euro stays quite high.¡±

The ZEW economic sentiment survey, released Tuesday, hit a 10-month low. However, ¡°the economic outlook still remains relatively stable at a fairly high level,¡± ZEW said in a statement.

Providing critical information for the U.S. trading day. Subscribe to MarketWatch's free Need to Know newsletter. Sign up here.