＃ it looks like the government was waiting till China Mobile was ready to launch, meanwhile delaying FDD-LTE by declaring a necessity to ※ §.

China＊s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) on Wednesday issued 4G licenses to three Chinese telecom operators, marking the beginning of a new era in China＊s high-speed mobile network. The ministry said the three companies have conducted large-scale tests of TD-LTE, or Time-Division Long-Term Evolution, one of two international standards, and their technology is ready for commercial service. Zhang Feng, the MIIT＊s spokesman, said 4G technology will lower bandwidth costs and promise faster mobile broadband. The ministry＊s figures showed that the Internet speed of 4G networks is 10 times that of 3G services, and allows mobile users to download a 7-megabyte music file in less than one second. China Mobile said the rates for 4G services will be cheaper than those for 3G . In where the company has launched the 4G network for trial commercial use, the tariff is 20 percent less than similar 3G network plans . Li Yue, president of China Mobile, said the price of 4G smartphones will go down quickly following the approval of the 4G network for commercial use. Now only a number of smartphone models in China are equipped with modules that support home-grown 4G TD-LTE technology, with their prices ranging from 350 U.S. dollars to 800 U.S. dollars . Li said 4G terminals for as little as 150 U.S. dollars will be available on the market by the end of this year . The MIIT also said Wednesday it will . China is the major promoter of the TD-LTE standard and is also a major owner of the standard＊s core patents. LTE FDD is the other international 4G standard and is popular in Europe. The MIIT said the convergence of the two standards is gaining momentum in the global telecom industry. A total of 10 converged TD-LTE/LTE FDD commercial networks have been established so far worldwide . ※ China will issue licenses for LTE FDD when the condition is ripe ,§ said the ministry. Experts believe the commercialization of TD-LTE will create a new impetus for China＊s economic growth, as the country is home to the largest number of mobile phone users in the world. The ministry＊s statistics showed that the 3G network contributed 211 billion yuan (34 billion U.S. dollars) to China＊s GDP in its first three years of commercial use. ※The 4G industry chain, which involves terminal manufacturing and the software sector, will further improve the services of China＊s telecom sector,§ said spokesman Zhang Feng.

60% of phone users in China have no plans to upgrade to 4G: report [Want China Times, Dec 6, 2013, 14:46 (GMT+8)]

What are the differences between TDD LTE (TD-LTE) and FDD LTE (FD-LTE)? [Global TD-LTE Initiative, Nov 4, 2013]

FDD LTE and TDD LTE are two different standards of LTE 4G technology. LTE is a high-speed wireless technology from the 3GPP standard. 3G growth reached its end at HSPA+, and mobile operators have already started deploying 4G networks to provide much more bandwidth for mobile users. 4G speed will provide a virtual LAN reality to mobile handsets by offering very high speed access to the Internet to experience real triple play services such as data, voice and video from a mobile network. LTE is defined to support both the paired and . LTE FDD uses a paired spectrum that comes from a migration path of the 3G network, whereas TDD LTE uses an unpaired spectrum that evolved from TD-SCDMA . TD-LTE does not require a paired spectrum since transmission and reception occurs in the same channel . In FD-LTE, it requires a paired spectrum with different frequencies with a guard band. TD-LTE is cheaper than FD-LTE since in TD-LTE there is no need for a diplexer to isolate transmission and receptions . In TD-LTE, it＊s possible to change the uplink and downlink capacity ratio dynamically according to the needs. In FD-LTE, capacity is determined by frequency allocation by regulatory authorities, making it difficult to make a dynamic change. In TD-LTE, a larger guard period is necessary to maintain the uplink and downlink separation that will affect the capacity . In FD-LTE, the same concept is referred to as a guard band for isolation of uplink and downlink, which will not affect capacity. , which is not applicable to FD-LTE.

Our existing ＆counter consensus＊ view on the outlook for Chinese Telecoms is based on the belief that LTE will cause a reversal of fortune among the key players. China Mobile will solve the biggest problem identified in our consumer research ( ) and will once again have the ＆best＊ mobile network in China on all dimensions. China Unicom, having gained strong momentum on the basis of their superior 3G data speeds will face a slowing of momentum 每 at least among high value customers seeking the latest technology Over the last few weeks we have heard many arguments from China Mobile Bears as to why our hypothesis will be wrong. The initial arguments are usually targeted at the technology itself 每 that TD-LTE is a Chinese standard and a poor cousin to the much better FD-LTE more popular in Europe (it isn＊t), that it doesn＊t handle voice calls well (irrelevant 每 no operator in the world has launched a new LTE network with voice over LTE 每 in all cases they use existing 2G or 3G networks for voice ), that handsets will not be available (ever heard of the iPhone? Not to mention Samsung, Sony, HTC, Huawei＃) China Mobile launched its TD-LTE network in Shenzhen for ＆test＊ operations in early November . We thought the best way to address the Bear＊s technology concerns was to go test the network for ourselves . Nearly 120 speed tests conducted from different indoor and outdoor locations supported our hypothesis that TD-LTE will be demonstratively better than Unicom＊s existing 3G network in data speeds. On average , and a . We concur that service coverage for LTE is currently weaker, but locations meaningful to high value customers are already largely covered. Coverage will continue to improve as China Mobile rolls out new sites. Over the last few years, China Mobile has underperformed the market while Unicom has outperformed 每 we attribute most of the difference in fortune of these two companies to the relative data speed of their respective 3G networks. We believe the launch of TD-LTE services by China Mobile will start the process of reversing this. Speed test in Shenzhen affirm our belief that TD-LTE technology works and is demonstratively superior to W-CDMA in data speeds. Click to download: 

China Telecommunications: Who says TD-LTE doesn＊t work? 

We experienced lightning speeds in Shenzhen

[a 10 pages long whitepaper by Berstein Research, Nov 18, 2013]

Some important excerpts from that:

China Mobile has been selling TD-LTE devices and rate plans in Shenzhen since November 1st. As 4G licenses are not yet issued, these sales are described as ※trials§ and are limited to a small number of devices and are only available in a few cities . The : service contracts are signed under a 3G rate plan which will transfer to a 4G plan in January. We believe that sales of 4G services in advance of an actual license is an aggressive move, and highlights how important 4G is for China Mobile＊s management. We conducted over 100 speed tests in Shenzhen to compare the new TD-LTE network versus Unicom＊s existing 3G network. Unicom has benefited tremendously from China Mobile＊s misfortune with TD-SCDMA and its own good fortune of being licensed with WCDMA. Unicom also stands to suffer the most if its leadership on speed is lost . Our proprietary customer research indicated this was a key buying factor for many of Unicom＊s existing customers. We went to Shenzhen (one of the cities where China Mobile is already selling 4G services) to pit China Unicom and China Mobile＊s networks head-to-head. We conducted ~120 tests across various locations ( , , , and ) to reach robust conclusions on speed, latency and coverage. Our test approach and sampling criteria are shown on Exhibit 1; our 4G test equipments are shown in Exhibits 2 and 3.

As expected, our test highlighted that TD-SCDMA lags Unicom＊s WCDMA in 3G data speeds. First we wanted to confirm Unicom＊s data speed superiority over China Mobile on 3G network. As expected we found Unicom＊s WCDMA to download and upload around 3 times faster than China Mobile＊s TD-SCDMA . clocked an of and , compared to and for . These results were broadly similar to field tests done by the Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) in 2010 (see Exhibits 4 and 5). everything it is promised to be: the new leader in data speed . We then moved on to test TD-LTE＃ We found it had 3 times less latency (Exhibit 6) which improves the browsing experience making the phone feel more responsive. clocked , which was ~ (Exhibit 7). , which was (Exhibit 8). These performance levels were consistently observed across all locations where there was a signal . Part of TD-LTE＊s outperformance is due to a lack of users on the network, however, given the large amount of spectrum expected to be allocated for LTE services we believe there will continue to be a material performance advantage over WCDMA even as the subscriber base expands. The TD-LTE network had more coverage gaps but this will improve over time. China Mobile＊s TD-LTE network did have some coverage issues, even within urban Shenzhen . However the problem was less significant than feared . All the outdoor sites tested received good signals, and high traffic indoor locations (e.g. shopping malls, cafes) are also covered. The only test site where we failed to receive a signal was the underground metro station (Refer back to Exhibit 1). We suspect there are many more ＆gaps＊ around, but these will be progressively fixed over time. Anecdotally there appears to be pent-up demand for TD-LTE services; improving availability of handsets will be key to unlocking this. there are only two LTE handsets available from China Mobile : a at 5299RMB [ ] and a cheaper at 2888RMB [ ]. One clerk told us that since launching 4G ※trials§ 2 weeks ago, her store had only sold one TD-LTE phone. However many customers with TD-LTE compatible iPhones (5S/5C models bought in Hong Kong) are signing up to 4G plans . We are wary of making too much from this, but agree that improving handset availability will be key to a broader uptake of the service. With integrated 2G/3G/4G chipsets available and China now being the largest smartphone market, we believe it will not be long before a large number of mid to low end devices start to appear on the market.

More than Half of Asian Population Will Be Covered by LTE-TDD by 2018 [ABI Research News, Nov 4, 2013]

GSA confirms 244 LTE networks are commercially launched, LTE1800 now mainstream [news article by GSA, Dec 5, 2013]

Note that by the time of 4G based on TD-LTE the leading edge of LTE will much further ahead as SK Telecom Demonstrates 225 Mbps LTE-Advanced [press release, Nov 28, 2013]

But already SK Telecom, China Mobile agree on [Yonhap, Dec 5, 2013]

New era for mobiles as 4G licenses issued to carriers [Xinhuanet, Dec 5, 2013]

China issued long-awaited 4G licenses to three telecommunications carriers yesterday, which would offer mobile Internet access 20 to 50 times faster than the current 3G network and create a new trillion-yuan market for devices and services. China, the world＊s biggest mobile phone market, has now officially entered the 4G era five years after it issued 3G licenses. The technology is widely adopted in the United States, Europe, Japan, South Korea and other regional markets. The network, along with e-commerce and software businesses, is expected to boost information consumption and market demand, and encourage innovation in China, according to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. will launch 4G services in Shanghai, Beijing and 11 other cities by the end of this year . The number of cities will expand to 340 by the end of 2014 . Users can upgrade to the 4G network without changing phone numbers, said yesterday. It has been testing 4G networks for two years . China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom all got 4G licenses based on TD-LTE (time division-long term evolution) technology. China Unicom and China Telecom also got approval to test another 4G technology FD-LTE (frequency division-LTE), which is mainly used in overseas markets. China will issue FD-LTE 4G licenses later, the ministry said . China Mobile also got the approval to operate fixed-line business including family broadband, which makes it possible to launch bundled services, the ministry added. ※It＊s a national strategy to boost commercial 4G development to boost consumption and fuel-related investment,§ the ministry said on its website. The ministry said that 4G had become an engine for the development of the whole IT industry, fueling demand for the latest smartphones. With greatly improved speed and more powerful phones, new mobile Internet services will appear that will enrich people＊s daily lives, the ministry said. With 4G, mobile users can download a film (700 megabytes) in two minutes and a high-quality song (7MB) in less than a second. More 4G-related services such as video on demand, conferencing, high-quality music streaming, multiplayer games and remote video monitoring for medical and security services are being tested, industry insiders said. The initial investment for 4G will reach 500 billion yuan (US$82 billion) in a few years, and is expected to hit 1 trillion yuan with the industry＊s development. ※4G LTE is the fastest growing mobile technology since the inception of mobility some 25 years ago. And we know that mobile broadband will have a huge impact on people, business and society and be one of the most critical infrastructures for any country,§ Hans Vestberg, chief executive of Ericsson, the world＊s largest telecommunications equipment vendor. By 2019, China will be home to 700 million mobile subscribers on 4G, making it the world＊s biggest 4G market, according to Ericsson. Equipment makers including Ericsson, Huawei, ZTE and Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell are going to benefit from the 4G wave. ※We are fully prepared for providing handsets for China＊s own 4G technology, from entry-level to high-end phones,§ said Cher Wang, HTC＊s chairman. is going to with a , meaning in Chinese, on December 17. The carrier m , according to industry sources. In cities such as Beijing and Shenzhen, China Mobile have allowed users to apply for trial commercial use of 4G services with their own devices. In Shanghai, more than 1,800 people had been invited to test 4G services. Its target is to cover 100 cities by the middle of next year and 340 by the end of 2014 , when it plans to launch 4G phones that cost less than 1,000 yuan each . In the first half, it will launch 50 new 4G phones. In Shanghai, nine TD-LTE phones will be available by the end of this year . Users can apply for 4G services at China Mobile＊s outlets on Madang Road and Minsheng Road initially, to be expanded to 20 outlets citywide. Shanghai Mobile also plans to establish an additional 3,000 4G base stations next year from the current 700, to cover the whole city including suburban and rural regions .

From 2013 Interim Results Presentation as of Aug 15, 2013

China Mobile lifts hopes of Apple deal and 4G launch [Shanghai Daily via Xinhuanet, Oct 31, 2013]

China Mobile still talking to Apple on iPhones [Reuters, Dec 5, 2013 9:27am EST]

Hong Kong, December 06, 2013 〞 Moody＊s Investors Service says that the Chinese government＊s decision to issue a Time-Division Long-Term Evolution (TD-LTE), or 4G, license, is credit positive for China Mobile Limited (Aa3 stable) as this will help strengthen its market position in the growing wireless data business. On 4 December, China Mobile announced that the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology had granted its parent, China Mobile Communications Corporation (CMCC, unrated), permission to operate the TD-LTE business and China Mobile will assist CMCC in the construction and operations of the TD-LTE network. China Mobile is likely to enjoy the first mover advantage in the TD-LTE business as it has been investing in the technology since early 2013, well ahead of its competitors. China Mobile targets to build over 200,000 commercial-ready base stations and expand its network coverage to 100 major cities by the end of this year. It has already started trials in some of the major cities, including Beijing. While its two major competitors 〞 such as China United Network Communications Group Co Ltd ( , unrated) and Corporation (unrated) 〞 also obtained TD-LTE licenses at the same time, we expect these companies to only start major investments in 2014 . In fact, these companies plan to use Frequency Division Duplex (FDD)-LTE 〞 an international standard used outside China 〞 as their mainstream 4G technology. However, the FDD-LTE licenses have not yet been granted and any delay in the issuance of the licenses will be advantageous for China Mobile. Although TD-LTE is a home-grown technology, China Mobile is unlikely to be hampered by the lack of choice in 4G handsets, as was the case with its 3G indigenous technology platform (Time Division-Code Division Multiple Access, or TD-SCDMA). TD-LTE technology has been accepted internationally, with 59 operators and 54 manufacturers joining the global TD-LTE initiative as of H1 2013. In addition, 25 models of TD-LTE trial devices were launched and over 100 models are under development, of which 15 handsets are intended for commercial use. Moody＊s believes that Apple＊s new iPhones have also become technologically compatible with TD-LTE, as well as TD-SCDMA, although China Mobile has not yet started selling iPhones. The launch of TD-LTE is strategically important for China Mobile to strengthen its market position in the growing wireless data business. China Mobile had about 759 million customers as of October 2013, of which 176 million were 3G customers. Its 3G subscribers are growing rapidly with over 100% growth since May 2013 on a year-over-year basis. Moody＊s expects its wireless data business to continue its solid growth. The wireless data revenue has grown 62% in H1 2013 on a year-over-year basis. In H1 2013 the business accounted for 17% of its telecommunications services revenue, up from 11% in H1 2012. However, has been much smaller than its overall mobile market share. , its 3G market share was (China Unicom 30% and China Telecom 25%) while its overall mobile market share was 62% (China Unicom 23% and China Telecom 15%), largely because of the use of TD-SCDMA despite the recent improvement in its 3G market share . Moody＊s expects the launch of TD-LTE will help China Mobile improve its market position in the wireless data segment and slow the pace of declines in average revenue per user (ARPU), as the ARPU of data users tends to be higher. The large investments in TD-LTE will continue to pressure China Mobile＊s cash flow. Moody＊s expects its adjusted free cash flow (FCF)/debt to fall to below 0% in 2013 and 2014 from over 60% in 2012. Moody＊s expects that the company＊s adjusted capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue from telecommunications services will increase to over 30% in 2013 and 2014, from below 25% of its revenue in 2012. Nevertheless, its overall credit profile will remain in line with its rating, supported by its solid overall operating and financial profiles, as well as its excellent liquidity. For example, Moody＊s expects China Mobile＊s adjusted debt/EBITDA to remain at approximately 0.3x. The principal methodology used in this rating was the Global Telecommunications Industry published in December 2010. Please see the Credit Policy page on http://www.moodys.com for a copy of this methodology. China Mobile is the leading provider of mobile telecommunications services in China, offering voice and data services in all 31 provinces and autonomous regions, as well as in Hong Kong. It is , which in turn is wholly owned by China＊s State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission.

From Edited Transcript of 2013 Interim Results Investor Presentation and 2013 Interim Results Presentation of Aug 21, 2013:

According to informed sources, the Ministry has recently approved the China Telecom launched TD-LTE trial network construction and pre-commercial related business . This means that China Telecom 4G future will get two licenses for FDD LTE/TD-LTE network integration. ※China Telecom will use FDD LTE/TD-LTE network integration approach build 4G network.§ China Telecom Chairman Mr. Wang had previously publicly stated that ※since the frequency is restricting the operator＊s core resources in the 4G era, network integration is inevitable.§ . It is understood that although China Telecom＊s LTE core network master device bidding amount is not large, but the coverage of the country＊s 31 provinces, including ZTE, Huawei, Shanghai Bell, Ericsson and other equipment manufacturers, including domestic and international mainstream have received certain share, which, ZTE, Huawei, Shanghai Bell＊s winning share is relatively large . It is understood that the successful vendor device support FDD/TDD multi-mode network, this also shows that China Telecom has begun preparations related to the deployment of TD-LTE . Late last year, China Telecom in Shanghai, Nanjing and other cities in Guangdong 4G trial , however, was . The Ministry of approval, indicating that China Telecom has determined will be FDD LTE/TD-LTE 4G mode hybrid network test network construction. Prior to the introduction, according to Mr. Wang in China Telecom＊s 4G network planning, , while the urban area densely populated areas will use TDD system , using this integrated program will be able to achieve all of the user needs. In addition, from China Telecom＊s terminal planning can be seen that China Telecom in 4G mobile phones mainly uses standard FDD LTE multimode phones, but in the data card is the main use of TD-LTE network resources.

From 2013 Interim Results Presentation as of Aug 8, 2013

From INTERIM REPORT 2013 as of August 8, 2013