According to Dailystar.co.uk ,technology expert Ian Wilson said he had located what he believed to be the missing flight - which disappeared suddenly on March 8, 2014. Using Google satellite imagery, Mr Wilson claimed he had pinpointed the location of the aircraft in Cambodian jungle and said he planned to fly a helicopter to the site of the wreckage. But following the news on Thursday, Earth observation company Space View has said it scanned the land area to prove the Briton¡¯s claims that the aircraft was located 60km away from capital Pnom Penh. The company, authorised by the Chinese government, has now published images that it says are the same location of what Mr Wilson believes is the missing Malaysian Airlines plane.

However, the plane that is visible in Mr Wilson¡¯s Google Maps image is not visible in Space View¡¯s cutting-edge satellite technology. Because of this the Chinese tech company says it has disproved Mr Wilson¡¯s theory. Space View tweeted: "Stakeholders and bystanders plead Space View to shoot at the site. "So, we found out three images, shot in 2015, 2016 and 2018 from our archive.

"Sorry, no plane found there." But despite Space View¡¯s own conclusion, Mr Wilson is still planning to go ahead with his helicopter trip to closely examine the co-ordinates thrown up by the Google satellite. And although the Chinese company says it has disproved Mr Wilson¡¯s theory, a private investigator and aerospace expert has called for the company to zoom in on the coordinates using different Satellites. Andre Milne, CEO of Unicorn Aerospace, has challenged Space View to use its own satellite equipment to offer a second opinion.

Mr Wilson told Dailystar.co.uk: "Just thinking about it makes want to move quickly. "I¡¯d like to know one way or the other and put this to bed so it doesn¡¯t drag on. "Google could help with that and hope they do. "I'm in the same camp (as Milne) with regard to Google pointing a satellite at the coordinates and getting an answer, if that's possible.

"But I'd like to go sooner rather than later and really need to set aside and sort a plan." There have been widespread allegations of a mass cover up by the Malaysian government since the aircraft vanished from sight four years ago. The plane was lost in 2014 with 239 people on board but its whereabouts has been shrouded in mystery amid several conspiracy theories that have been put forward. But Mr Milne said that Google had a ¡°responsibility¡± to check all claims with real time imaging technology rather than Google maps, which is updated every one to three years.

He said: ¡°Based on the highly suspicious claim made by Malaysian ATC to Ho Chi Minh ATC, it would be very helpful if Google would be available to take a moment and revisit the suspect location with real-time satellite technology. "To rule in or rule out this site as being one of the two possible land sites we are cross referencing as per my investigation." The Malaysian Transport Ministry released records to show that air traffic controllers were told that the plane was in Cambodian airspace ¨C but controllers in Ho Minh Chi City later claimed that the theory was incorrect. A 449-page report on MH370 was released in July of this year and said the cause of the disappearance could not be identified until the wreckage and black box were found.

The document, submitted by the Malaysian government, discounted popular theories of damage to the aircraft and that pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah was somehow responsible as possible reasons for the plane to vanish. Other theories included claims that cracks in the Boeing 777 caused it to crumble mid-air and that a second Bermuda Triangle in the Indian Ocean swallowed the airplane explaining its sudden disappearance. The last words from the cockpit to Malaysian air traffic controllers were: ¡°Good Night Malaysia Three Seven Zero", and were heard at 1.19am by either Captain Zahaire Ahmed Shah or his co-pilot. Space View tweeted: "Stakeholders and bystanders plead Space View to shoot at the site.

"So, we found out three images, shot in 2015, 2016 and 2018 from our archive. "Sorry, no plane found there." But despite Space View¡¯s own conclusion, Mr Wilson is still planning to go ahead with his helicopter trip to closely examine the co-ordinates thrown up by the Google satellite. And although the Chinese company says it has disproved Mr Wilson¡¯s theory, a private investigator and aerospace expert has called for the company to zoom in on the coordinates using different Satellites.

Andre Milne, CEO of Unicorn Aerospace, has challenged Space View to use its own satellite equipment to offer a second opinion. Mr Wilson told the Daily Star Online: "Just thinking about it makes want to move quickly. "I¡¯d like to know one way or the other and put this to bed so it doesn¡¯t drag on. "Google could help with that and hope they do.

But Mr Milne said that Google had a ¡°responsibility¡± to check all claims with real time imaging technology rather than google maps, which is updated every one to three years. He said: ¡°Based on the highly suspicious claim made by Malaysian ATC to Ho Chi Minh ATC, it would be very helpful if Google would be available to take a moment and revisit the suspect location with real-time satellite technology. "To rule in or rule out this site as being one of the two possible land sites we are cross referencing as per my investigation." The Malaysian Transport Ministry released records to show that air traffic controllers were told that the plane was in Cambodian airspace ¨C but controllers in Ho Minh Chi City later claimed that the theory was incorrect.