Last year, when Joe Lopez decided to buy a few Quiznos restaurants in Michigan, he had one reason for investing in the formerly booming toasted sandwich chain's locations: They were cheap. Lopez bought three in a distress sale for $60,000. "No one is going to sell me a Marriott," Lopez says. "No one is going to sell me a McDonald's. Quiznos was pretty much at the bottom of the totem pole."

Quiznos has been there for a while. Founded in 1981, the privately held company grew to more than 5,000 locations by 2007 but has been flailing ever since. It has waged a constant battle with its franchisees, many of whom accused the chain of selling rights to too many locations and demanding that franchisees buy supplies from the company at prices that made it impossible for them to succeed. Last year Quiznos, based in Denver, closed 439 restaurants in the U.S. and filed for Chapter 11. It is down to 1,500 stores worldwide, with 900 in the U.S.

After emerging from bankruptcy last June, Quiznos underwent a round of layoffs and resignations, brought in a new CEO, began introducing a new menu and retooling its IT, and overhauled its supply chain. "The goal is to plot a new direction and get things turned around," says CEO Doug Pendergast, who took the helm in January and was previously CEO of the Atlanta-based Krystal burger chain. Some franchisees say Pendergast is making the right moves, but in the face of stiff competition from sandwich upstarts Jimmy John's and Firehouse Subs, not to mention industry behemoth , the change of tack may have come too late.

Quiznos was the brainchild of Jimmy Lambatos, a chef, and restaurateur Todd Disner. Lambatos created a popular product: a sub sandwich that ran through a conveyor belt toaster to add a crunch that customers seemed to love. They grew the enterprise to 18 locations by 1991 before selling out to one of the franchisees, Rick Schaden, who along with his father expanded the company spectacularly, selling franchise rights by the thousands.

It was Schaden who required franchisees to purchase all of their supplies--from cold cuts to background-music CDs--from the company at prices they considered inflated. "We've always estimated that Quiznos marked up everything about 30%," says Jehad Majed, who has operated a location in Dearborn Heights, Mich. for a decade.

Things came to a head in 2006, when about 10,000 of the chain's franchisees filed a class action accusing the company of overselling its markets and making its franchisees "captive customers." The combination of crowded markets and high costs, says Justin M. Klein, the lawyer who represented the franchisees, meant that "it was only a matter of time until the franchisees would fail."

Quiznos settled the suit in 2010, paying the plaintiffs $206 million. Nonetheless, Rick Schaden denies overselling franchises. As for supply costs, he says, "There was no markup. We simply produced food at market prices." Current chairman of the Quiznos board, Doug Benham, sees things differently: "All we know is we had years and years of class action lawsuits, which the company settled for millions of dollars, that was directly on point to that subject."

The settlement came too late for at least one franchise owner, Bhupinder Baber, who had attempted to start an association of California franchisees. In November 2006 Baber took his own life in a Quiznos bathroom. "Someone must do something about what Quiznos is doing to the trapped franchisees," he wrote in the note he left. "Everything they do is in their own self-interest, with utter disregard for the interests of the franchisees, to who they sold the 'dream' and put into business, only to screw them systematically from day one." Of Baber's death, a Quiznos spokesperson says, "We were saddened."

In 2012 creditors led by private equity firm Avenue Capital and hedge fund Fortress Investment Group demanded a restructuring that gave the firms control of the company. (Today the chain's other owners include Oaktree Capital, Michael Dell's MSD Capital and Caspian Capital.) Fortress and Avenue went on to sue the Schadens and other Quiznos managers, accusing them of misrepresenting the company's financial health before the deal. Rick Schaden denies the allegation.

This year, under its new owners, Quiznos finally dismantled its supply arm. Franchisees are now buying from an independent food distributor, , and prices have fallen significantly. A case of bread, once $30, now goes for $18, and the chain says franchisees, on average, have seen their supply costs fall 3.5% as a percentage of gross sales. The company says it also plans to eliminate unpopular menu items and ingredients. According to CEO Pendergast, a cloud-based point-of-sale system is being implemented to track commerce at North American locations. That network will eventually include a mobile app that customers can use to snag coupons and freebies, as well as to place online orders.

Quiznos has also cut 29% of its full-time staff. Benham, the board chairman, says the layoffs were inevitable given the company's reduced number of locations. "Every position in the company was reviewed and in some cases we consolidated positions," he says. "In other cases we decided that what a person was doing were things we just weren't going to do anymore."

Of the 1,500 Quiznos restaurants still open, the company owns only 6 itself. Each franchisee pays 7% of sales to the home office every week, on top of 4% in marketing fees. Pendergast won't disclose systemwide sales (franchise industry research firm FRANdata estimates it at $285 million for 2014, down from $400 million in 2013, compared to Subway's $13 billion in 2014), though he says the company is profitable. He also won't discuss how many franchisees are in the black, except to say, "Not as many as we would like."

One franchisee not in the black is Jehad Majed, who estimates sales this year at the location he's run for a decade at $340,000. He says he is four months behind on his Michigan state taxes, has $16,000 in credit card debt and owes Quiznos $30,000 in royalties and fees. Majed says he has amassed personal debt of $100,000, and although he's sunk $230,000 into his location, he'd take $50,000 for it--if only he could find a buyer. "It's hard to sell a Quiznos these days."

While he thinks the new ownership and new executive team are taking the right steps, he worries "it might be too little too late." If he can't turn things around in the next year, he says, he'll auction off his equipment and convert the location, which he owns, into something else: "Maybe a pizza place."

Things are looking considerably brighter for Joe Lopez, the franchisee who bought three locations in Grand Rapids and Lansing, Mich. last year for just $60,000. He says he expects them to yield $850,000 in combined sales this year and even turn a profit. But he, too, is watching Quiznos' moves carefully. "If the changes don't work," he says, "we'll all be out of business."

See More from the Best and Worst Franchises to Buy