The New Jersey job market is getting stronger, though it still lags other parts of the U.S.

The state's unemployment rate dropped to 4.4 percent in May, according to preliminary estimates produced by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. That number represents the lowest statewide rate in more than a decade, according to the New Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce Development.

New Jersey's unemployment rate has declined in recent months as the state's private sector has strengthened, but it still sits well above the national average of 3.8 percent.

In May, New Jersey employers added to their payrolls. Total nonfarm wage and salary employment increased by 4,100, with the majority of the increase occurring in the private sector.

The decreasing unemployment rate in the Garden State is an indication that the local economy is improving, experts say, but the people of New Jersey should not get their hopes up.

Economists and policy experts say New Jersey is in a unsustainable bubble that will most likely burst next year, causing layoffs. And the government, they say, has not implemented policies that will help residents earn higher wages and spend more as consumers.

The state is in its 107th month of expansion -- the second largest expansion in American history, and there's a good chance it will continue until the summer of 2019, said James Hughes, a faculty fellow at Rutgers University's John H. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development.

But once the bubble bursts, it is unclear how the economy will adjust, he said.

Brandon McKoy, director of government and public affairs at New Jersey Policy Perspective, a left-leaning think tank, said many residents of New Jersey will be more susceptible to negative change because they are working jobs that pay too little.

While jobs are increasing, the poverty level in New Jersey is more or less stagnant, McKoy said.

"So that tells us there's a clear wage issue here," he said. "You have certain people that just don't see (the poverty) if they go to work and come home to Montclair. They just don't see it."

Nationally, there are more jobs available than people to fill them, according to the Bureau for Labor Statistics. The situation is similar in New Jersey, McKoy said.

In the Garden State, there are jobs available but they pay too little, McKoy said, so people are less inclined to apply for them.

When he entered office in January, Gov. Phil Murphy said he was committed to raising the minimum wage to $15 in New Jersey. So far, the legislation has not moved forward, but McKoy said that if it were to pass, it would affect over 1 million people in the state.

In addition to the wage issue, there is a mismatch between jobs and skill levels of those looking for work, Hughes said. Some of the unemployed were trained in declining industries, and their skills are not suited for current job openings, he said.

Jobs on the rise in New Jersey include home health care aids, physical therapists, nurse practitioners and occupational therapists, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. All of them require specific schooling.

Erin Banco may be reached at ebanco@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @ErinBanco. Find NJ.com on Facebook.