Could JC Penney be on the verge of a turnaround? It has seen no shortage of bad news in the years since the financial crisis -- including a weak 2013 holiday season, a boot from the S&P 500 and a below-$10 stock price that was once closer to $80 a share -- but according to Citi analyst Oliver Chen, brighter days are on their way. Chen upgraded the beleaguered retailer's rating from neutral to a buy Tuesday morning, sending JC Penney stock surging 7.5% in pre-market activity.

In upgrading JC Penney from a neutral to a buy, Citi raised the retailer's price target up from $8.42 to $11, a level the stock hasn't seen since September 2013. "We¡¯re upgrading JCP to buy based on our conviction that JCP can continue to deliver positive comp store sales in-line with fiscal 2014 guidance," Chen writes in the report. "We believe this can happen as JCP fixes home, focuses on restocking basics & private branded product, and edits out inappropriate merchandise."

That guidance, provided in the company's fourth quarter earnings results released last month, included a full-year comparable store sales increase in the mid single digits, a "significantly" improved gross margin and liquidity in excess of $2 billion at year-end. Focusing just on 2014's first fiscal quarter, JC Penney said in February that it expects a first quarter comparable store sales increase between 3% and 5% with depreciation and amortization totaling $155 million.

Chen acknowledged that JC Penney still has a long way to go -- and indeed, the company reported a $1.4 billion net loss for full-year 2013 -- but added that he and his team "like the risk/reward given our conviction that just making basic changes will support guidance for growth in 2014."

He added that the "Street doesn¡¯t believe JCP can generate positive comp store sales, but we do." In Citi's view, the growth will be driven by the home and kid categories, which account for 20% to 25% of JC Penney's business mix. If the combined categories can comp 20%, it yields a 5% benefit for the company overall. Citi sees reason for optimism in these areas almost purely due to the fact that Ron Johnson is no longer the company's CEO.

"In our view, not so good decisions made under former CEO Ron Johnson considerably impacted performance in 2013. The home department was the major tailwind in the first half of the year, while trouble in kids from a merchandise point of view was the tailwind in the second half of the year," Chen wrote. Looking ahead, this should translate into better comparisons in 2014, Chen said, noting that in correcting Johnson's mistakes in the home category -- mistakes that included a pricing overhaul, a new shop environment and new partners -- JC Penney's home goods segment has regained momentum. "Although management noted that 'fixing home has been a challenge,' customers have responded positively to the changes, with home up in the fourth quarter," Chen wrote.

It's worth noting that Citi's new, bullish stance is a bit of a return to tradition -- though not nearly as bullish at it was in the past. Now-former Citi analyst Deborah Weinswig gave the retailer a $28 price target in 2012, writing at the time that ¡°J.C. Penney is clearly not out of ammo, as it showcased a dazzling display of technology, outgunning the competition." However, a year later Weinswig had changed her mind, downgrading the stock to a sell in September and predicting that its price would fall to $7 per share -- a prediction that came to fruition little more than than one month later.

Following Citi's upgrade, shares of JC Penney surged 7.5% in Tuesday's pre-market trading and are now up 8.6% -- and climbing -- in the early part of Tuesday's regular trading session.