(Reuters) - Shares of Urban Outfitters Inc (URBN.O) rose nearly 4 percent on Tuesday after at least four brokerages raised their price targets following the company¡¯s upbeat quarterly same-store sales forecast at its retail business.

The owner of Anthropologie and Free People clothing chains said same-store sales so far in the second quarter had climbed to the mid-teens percentage range. The company¡¯s stock rose to $48.79 pre-market after the news from a regulatory filing.

The forecast was a nice surprise for analysts, who were bullish on the company¡¯s outlook.

KeyBanc analyst Edward Yruma said the same-store sales growth was an acceleration of at least 4 percentage points compared to first-quarter comparable sales growth.

¡°The company has been very disciplined in its store footprint and, most importantly, is well positioned given its already high e-commerce penetration,¡± Yruma, who raised his price target on the stock by $10 to $55, wrote in a note.

¡°Believe Urban Outfitters remains one of the best positioned companies in apparel.¡±

J.P. Morgan analysts also said the forecast had exceeded their expectations of low-double-digit growth.

All brands under the Urban Outfitter umbrella reported better-than-expected same-store sales growth for the first quarter, last month.

While many retailers including Urban Outfitters struggled with unseasonably cold weather in the first quarter, hampering same-store sales growth, they have all cited improvement with the start of the spring season.

¡°We see Urban Outfitters¡¯ update as an additional indication that the second quarter is off to a solid start across the group,¡± Telsey Advisory Group analyst Dana Telsey wrote in a note. She boosted her target to $53 from $42.

The median target price on Urban Outfitter¡¯s stock is $47, up 18 percent from just a month ago.

Still, some analysts are on the fence in recommending the stock. At least 12 out of 22 brokerages rate the stock ¡°hold,¡± while nine rate it ¡°buy¡± or higher. One analyst has a ¡°sell¡± rating.