With global comp sales up 4.2% and U.S. comp sales up 2.4%, McDonald＊s turned in a strong third quarter, and investors are happy for now.

But we all know that running a restaurant chain is about more than just making investors happy, right?

Beyond the financials, a number of narratives emerged during the company＊s earnings call Tuesday morning that could qualify as storylines to watch through Q4. For starters, the company continues to endure its largest construction project ever with its Experience of the Future initiative 每 a $1 billion investment this year alone.

The company insists these changes will best position McDonald＊s in the long term, but they have caused some impatience among franchisees left footing part of the bill without much of a return yet. About 400 U.S. operators formed an advocacy group 每 the National Owners Association 每 earlier this month with an objective of working with corporate to ※positively impact the system for the benefit of the franchisee owners, our employees, customers, the company, and ultimately our shareholders.§

It was widely reported these franchisees (about one-quarter of the system) banded together specifically to address issues related to shrinking cash flow and the costs of the EOTF program.

Notably, a main concern for the company and presumably the franchisees is the impact of downtime during EOTF renovations, which added pressures on margins this quarter. CFO Kevin Ozan admitted that this downtime has been longer than the company anticipated, and that recovery time has been ※inconsistent.§ In response, the company has put into a place a grand reopening plan that involves local communities.

Also, partly because of this downtime, U.S. guest counts continued to decline during the quarter.

Still, McDonald＊s has accelerated the pace of modernizing restaurants 每 completing 1,000 alone during Q3. By the end of this year, more than 4,000 restaurants are expected to be modernized, which surpasses the company＊s original target.

Executives are confident that negative guest counts will dissipate as projects are completed and the company has evidence of this happening from some of its international markets, including the U.K. and Italy. Moreover, Easterbrook called conversations with the company＊s franchisees ※constructive and helpful.§

※You can expect us 每 as we always do 每 to work with the operators. Our success is inextricably linked. We actually see our franchisee relationship as being something of a competitive advantage for us over time and we see it continuing that way,§ Easterbrook said during the call.

Despite the drop in guest counts, check averages were up. CFO Kevin Ozan attributed this metric to a favorable product mix and menu pricing increase, as well as delivery and self-order kiosks. Consumer habits toward digital and delivery are shifting quickly and McDonald＊s is moving aggressively in both of these spaces. Through its partnership with Uber Eats, Easterbrook notes that McDonald＊s 每 just by its massive footprint alone 每 has a distinctive advantage in delivery. A total of 9,000 U.S. restaurants are expected to deliver by the end of this year.

This channel is quite an opportunity for McDonald＊s, as delivery is highly likely to generate repeat business. According to Nation＊s Restaurant News, customers who order via delivery are more likely to reorder within 60 days versus walk-in customers. Also, because delivery orders tend to be group orders, checks average up to two times higher though this channel, providing a material impact on sales.

Again using international markets as a case study, the runway is long for delivery in the U.S. In the U.K., Australia and France, for example, delivery represents as much as 10% of sales.

This is why McDonald＊s is devoting some of its marketing attention on encouraging delivery customers to order more regularly, and investing in mobile app delivery integration and new packaging.

Also of note, the company admitted it continues to lose share in the breakfast space and, though it＊s not clear to whom, Taco Bell and Chick-fil-A are likely culprits. McDonald＊s could also potentially be cannibalizing itself since it began offering all-day breakfast.

McDonald＊s is looking to rectify this issue by shifting its marketing to focus more on regionalization and giving local co-ops more control over these messages.

McDonald＊s also announced late Tuesday the November 1 launch of its first new breakfast menu item since 2013 每 the Triple Breakfast Stacks. The stacks, inspired by the company's "secret menu," include two slices of cheese, two sausage patties, two pieces of bacon and an egg, and are available as a McMuffin, biscuit or McGriddles cakes.

This new food news, Easterbrook said, will ※reenergize§ the daypart. There is a sense of urgency to do just that, considering nearly 25% of McDonald＊s business comes through the morning.

Positive results and progress aside, McDonald＊s is clearly grappling with the same issue as every other restaurant company is dealing with 每 the fight for traffic. And, while the company＊s ※accelerators§ such as self-ordering and delivery lead to higher check averages and short-term sales lifts, it doesn＊t solve the long-term objective of finding new traffic.

This is where Easterbrook is most optimistic about the long-term benefits of the EOTF. As customers seek food opportunities beyond the restaurant space 每 from supermarkets to meal kit deliveries 每 companies have to provide a better meal experience and added convenience. McDonald＊s is attempting to do both through EOTF.

※If we look at the analysis between the performance of restaurants which haven＊t adopted any of the EOTF and the major initiatives all the way to those restaurants that have adopted multiple initiatives, there is absolutely a crystal clear correlation for both sales and guest count levels and customer satisfaction levels,§ he said.

The keys for McDonald＊s will be to make sure customers don＊t change their habits during the prolonged downtime, to ensure flawless execution upon reopening, and to give franchisees solid reasons to be patient.