The Interest rate on your Floating Rate loan effective 1st April 2016 is linked to HSBC¡¯s (the Bank) published 3 month Marginal Cost of Fund based Lending Rate (MCLR) and will be reset on a three monthly basis. The 3 month MCLR is published by the Bank at the beginning of every month, which will be the benchmark rate for loans that are disbursed in that month. The floating rate of interest on all the loans disbursed by the bank will be reset at an interval of 3 months from the month of loan disbursal. It will be reset against the 3 month MCLR published by the bank in the month of reset. The reset will be done by the 7th calendar day of the month. (refer to the example below) A revision in the applicable rate of interest will lead to a revision in the Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) or the loan tenure at the bank¡¯s discretion. The revised loan interest rate will be notified to you by SMS, or e-mail or letter as per the bank¡¯s prevailing policy; however SMS will be the preferred mode. Though the current benchmark rate applicable to your loan is the 3 month MCLR, the bank reserves the right to change the benchmark rate to a different maturity MCLR, with due notice to you.

The applicable rate of interest rate on your loan is the 3 month MCLR plus the margin (spread). The margin charged to you will not be increased throughout the tenure of the loan, except on account of deterioration in the credit risk profile of the borrower.

Example: Loans disbursed during Month 1 will be benchmarked against the 3-Month MCLR of Month 1. For all loans disbursed during Month 1, the interest will be reset in Month 4 against the 3-Month MLCR published at the beginning of Month 4 (by the 7th calendar day of Month 4). The interest rate will continue to be reset every 3 months, i.e. in Month 7, 10 of the year and so on. Similarly, all loans disbursed in Month 2 will be reset against the 3-Month MCLR published at the beginning of Month 5 (by 7th calendar day of the Month 5). This will continue to be reset every 3 months, i.e. in Month 8 and Month 11 of the year, and so on.

Please note that basis Goods and Services Tax (GST) regulations and notified GST rates, Central GST and State/Union Territory GST or Inter-State GST, as applicable, would apply on our fees and charges with effect from 01 July 2017.

Fees and charges are subject to change at the sole discretion of the bank.

All loans at the sole discretion of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India.

As per the Central Government directive, from 15 Nov 2015, Swachh Bharat Cess @0.5% will be levied and with this, the effective rate of tax would be 15% to include the Swachh Bharat Cess (0.5%). The revised service tax will be computed as per the table below and will be levied on all foreign currency remittance and exchange transactions (Purchase or Sale) executed by HSBC India/Bank.