HONG KONG (Nikkei Markets) -- Asian stocks outside of Japan ended little changed after a choppy trading day on Monday, as concerns of a global growth slowdown amid U.S.-China trade tensions unnerved investors.

The Nikkei Asia300 Index rose 0.05% to 1,153.28 points after rising to as high as 1,159.28 earlier. The gauge changed direction at least six times. Monday's moves in Asia came after indexes on Wall Street fell Friday and data showed the pace of U.S. economic growth slowed in the third quarter from the preceding three-month period. Concerns over the impact of the Sino-American trade spat on global growth, rising U.S. interest rates, and caution over third-quarter earnings have been among major factors driving a recent global equity selloff.

The Shanghai Composite fell 2.2% on Monday after data showed over the weekend that China's industrial profits grew at a slower pace sequentially in September, the latest in a string of data releases that have pointed toward a slowdown in Asia's largest economy.

Midea Group fell by the maximum permissible 10% in Shenzhen on Monday as trading resumed after a seven-week halt. The home appliance company said it will buy washing machine maker Wuxi Little Swan through a share swap in a deal valued at 14.4 billion yuan ($2.1 billion).

Great Wall Motor slid 8.1% in Hong Kong after reporting a 50% decline in net profit for the July-to-September quarter on a near 20% decrease in revenue.

China Eastern Airlines rose 1.5% after reporting a 13.4% increase in revenue for the January-to- September period. Profit fell 43.3% from a year earlier.

Infrastructure construction company China Communications Construction ended 0.3% higher. It fell as much as 1.1% earlier after reporting a 4% decline in value of new contract wins in the nine-month period.

Tsingtao Brewery fell 3.1%. The Chinese beer maker on Friday reported a 10.6% on-year increase in third-quarter net profit and a 2% increase in revenue. During the first half of the year, the company had reported a 13% on-year increase in net profit.

Heavyweight internet company Tencent Holdings ended unchanged at HK$260 after falling as low as HK$255. On Monday, Nomura cut the gaming company's price target to HK$335 from HK$449, saying it is "more bearish on earnings," amid weaker margins for the payment and video business. Nomura maintained its "buy" rating on the stock.

Raffles Medical Group added 1.9% in Singapore after reporting a 0.1% year-over-year increase in third-quarter net profit and a 1.2% increase in revenue.

Sime Darby rose 2.9%. Chief Executive Jeffri Salim Davidson expects the company to report "significantly higher" net profit in the fiscal year 2019, The Edge newspaper reported.

Dr. Reddy's Laboratories jumped 5.4% in Mumbai. Late Friday, the drugmaker reported a better-than-expected 77% jump in second-quarter net profit following a surge in revenue from India and emerging markets.